1
Mutsuki
睦月です。\nはりきって、まいりましょー！
帝国海軍の駆逐艦で初めて大型で強力な61cm魚雷を搭載しました、睦月です！\n旧式ながら、第一線で頑張ったのです！
I'm Mutsuki. Let's work together!
The first Imperial Navy destroyer to be loaded with the powerful large-type 61cm torpedoes, Mutsuki! While I'm an older model, I gave it my all on the frontlines!
2
Kisaragi
如月と申します。\nおそばに置いてくださいね。
睦月型駆逐艦２番艦の如月と申します。\nウェーク島では五月蠅いF4F戦闘機の攻撃を受けながら奮戦しました。\nいやん、ほんと、髪の毛が潮風で痛んじゃう……。
My name is Kisaragi. Please keep me by your side.
The second ship of Mutsuki-class, Kisaragi. At Wake Island, I fought bravely under the assault of annoying F4F Fighters. Nooo~ I mean it... the sea breeze will ruin my hair...
6
Nagatsuki
長月だ。\n駆逐艦と侮るなよ。役に立つはずだ。
睦月型８番艦だ。\n東南アジア方面の攻略作戦後は、船団護衛を任されていた。コロンバンガラ島への揚陸作戦では敵艦の襲撃を受けながら奮戦したよ。
Nagatsuki here. Don't make light of me as destroyers. I'm useful.
Eighth ship of the Mutsuki-class. After the occupation of Southeast Asia, I was assigned to escort duties. While unloading at Kolombangara, I had to fend off a surprise attack by the enemy fleet.
7
Mikazuki
あなたが司令官ですね。三日月です。\nどうぞお手柔らかにお願いします。
軽空母のエスコートや船団護衛に従事した睦月型駆逐艦三日月です。\n激戦のソロモン海域にも出撃しました。旧式だけど速力を生かして強行輸送任務も奮闘しました。
You're the commander, right? I'm Mikazuki. I hope you welcome me warmly into your fleet.
I am Mikazuki, the Mutsuki class destroyer that participated in escorting light carriers and other fleets. I even sortied to that fierce battle of Solomon Islands. Although I'm an old model, utilizing my fast speed I even participated in some transport missions.
9
Fubuki
はじめまして吹雪です。\nよろしくお願い致します。
ワシントン条約制限下で設計された、世界中を驚愕させたクラスを超えた特型駆逐艦の１番艦、吹雪です。\n私たちは、後の艦隊型駆逐艦のベースとなりました。\nはいっ、頑張ります！
Nice to meet you! I'm Fubuki! Thanks for having me!
The first of the Special Type destroyers designed under the Washington Naval Treaty, shocking the world with our capabilities relative to other ship classifications at the time, Fubuki here! Based on our design, many successive fleet-type destroyers were built. Aye! I'll do my best!
10
Shirayuki
白雪です。\nよろしくお願いします。
特型駆逐艦、２番艦、白雪です。\n緒戦の数々の作戦に参加しました。その後、増援の部隊を輸送する第八十一号作戦に護衛隊旗艦として参加致しました。
I'm Shirayuki. Thanks for having me.
Special-type destroyer, second ship, Shirayuki. At the start of the war, I participated in many operations. After that, I was the flagship of the escort in Operation 81 that transported troop reinforcements.
11
Miyuki
深雪だよ。\nよろしくな！
特型駆逐艦、４番艦の深雪さまだよ！\n演習中に他の駆逐艦とぶつかって事故っちゃったこともあるんだ。\nまー、でもやるときゃやるぜ。みてなって！
I'm Miyuki. Great to meet you!
Fourth of the special-type destroyers, Miyuki-sama! During practice, I hit another destroyer and made a bit of scene. Eh, but I gotta do what I gotta do. Watch and see!
12
Isonami
あ、あの…磯波と申します。\nよろしくお願いいたします。
特型駆逐艦９番艦の磯波です。\n数々の作戦に参加したんですけど、中破してからは後方で海上護衛や哨戒活動に従事していました。\n頑張ります。
U-um... my name is Isonami. Pleased to meet you.
Ninth ship of the special-type destroyers, Isonami. Though I participated in many different battles, after getting damaged, I ended up in the marine guard and rear patrol. I'll do my best!
13
Ayanami
ごきげんよう。\n特型駆逐艦、綾波と申します。
特型駆逐艦、綾波です。\n改良吹雪型の１番艦なんです。\n第三次ソロモン海海戦では、駆逐艦一隻としては、特別な大活躍をお見せしました。\n頑張ります！
Nice to meet you. I'm Ayanami, a special class destroyer.
Special class destroyer, Ayanami. I'm the first ship of the improved Fubuki class. In the Third Battle of the Solomon Sea, I showed an outstanding performance as a destroyer. I'll do my best!
14
Shikinami
アタシの名は敷波。\n以後よろしく。
特Ⅱ型駆逐艦２番艦の敷波。よろしく。\nミッドウェーやソロモンの海戦に参加した後、船団護衛を務めたよ。\n海上護衛戦は結構大変だよ…大事だし…。
I'm Shikinami. I'll be in your care.
Special Destroyer number II, Shikinami. Nice to meet you. After participating in Midway and the Battle of Solomon, I serve as a convoy escort. Being a convoy escort is really rough you know... Because it's important...
15
Akebono
特型駆逐艦「曙」よ。\nって、こっち見んな！　この糞提督！
特型駆逐艦１８番艦、綾波型の８番艦、曙よ。\nお相撲さんではないわ。覚えておいて。\n初の空母戦、珊瑚海海戦にも参加したわ！\nけど、何気に潜水艦は苦手かな…。
Special-type destroyer, 'Akebono'. Hey! Don't look at me, you shitty Admiral!
Special-type destroyer number 18, eighth of the Ayanami-class, Akebono. I'm not a sumo wrestler. Remember that. I participated in the first naval air battle, the Coral Sea! But, I'm a bit uneasy around subs...
16
Ushio
特型駆逐艦…綾波型の「潮」です。\nもう下がってよろしいでしょうか…。
綾波型１０番艦の潮です。\nレイテ沖海戦などの激戦を潜り抜け、運命のあの日、横須賀で御役目を終えるまで戦い抜きました。\nあ、あの…沈めた敵艦の皆さんも…ホントはお助けしたいのです。ホントです！
I'm the Special Type Ayanami-class destroyer, Ushio. It would be nice if I could be dismissed soon...
I'm the tenth ship of the Ayanami-class, Ushio. I survived the Battle of Leyte Gulf and many other fierce battles. After that fateful day at Leyte, I fought on dutifully until the war's end at Yokosuka. U-Um... to all the enemy ships that that were sunk... I really wanted to save you. I mean it!
17
Kagerou
やっと会えた！　陽炎よ。\nよろしくねっ！
第四次軍備充実計画で建造された陽炎型駆逐艦、ネームシップの陽炎よ。\n新鋭の主力駆逐艦として、ハワイ攻撃機動部隊を始め、様々な作戦に参加したわ！\nよろしくね！
We've finally met! I'm Kagerou. Treat me well!
Constucted for the Circle-4 programe, Kagerou-class nameship, Kagerou. As the main power of the newly-made ships, staring off with the Hawaii attack force, I was in lots of varied battles! Treat me well!
18
Shiranui
不知火です。\nご指導ご鞭撻、よろしくです。
陽炎型駆逐艦２番艦、不知火です。\n陽炎らと共にハワイ作戦部隊の護衛も務めました。\n運命のレイテ沖海戦では志摩艦隊に所属、スリガオ海峡に突入しました。
I'm Shiranui. I look forward to your guidance and encouragement.
Second Kagerou-class destroyer, Shiranui. Along with the other Kageros I served as the escort for the Hawaii Operational Forces. In the fated Battle of Leyte Gulf, I was attached to Shima's fleet and rushed to the Surigao Strait.
19
Kuroshio
黒潮や、よろしゅうな。
大阪の民間造船所で建造された、陽炎型駆逐艦の３番艦、黒潮や。\nこう見えても、スラバヤ沖海戦、南太平洋海戦、第三次ソロモン海戦などの激戦に参加したんやで。
I'm Kuroshio, nice to meet 'cha!
Built in the Osaka Civilian Naval Yards, third of the Kagerou-class Destroyers, Kuroshio. Even though I look like this, I participated in such hard-fought battles as Surabaya, the South Pacific and the third Battle of Solomon, ya' know.
20
Yukikaze
陽炎型駆逐艦８番艦、雪風です。\nどうぞ、よろしくお願いしますっ！
陽炎型駆逐艦８番艦の雪風です。\n私たち主力艦隊型駆逐艦の中で、十数回以上の主要海戦に参加しながらも、唯一ほとんど無傷で終戦まで生き残りました。\n奇跡の駆逐艦って？ううん、奇跡じゃないですっ！
The eighth ship of Kagerou-class destroyer, I'm Yukikaze. I'll be in your care!
I'm Yukikaze, eighth ship of the Kagerou-class destroyer. Among the destroyers of the main fleet, while taking part in over 10 major naval battles, I'm the only one to have survived the war with barely any damage. Miracle destroyer? Nope, it was no miracle!
21
Nagara
軽巡、長良です。\nよろしくお願いします！
5500トン級軽巡洋艦、長良型の１番艦、長良よ。\nちょっとモデルは古いけど、高速・魚雷発射主兵装・水雷戦隊指揮能力と、駆逐艦仕切るにはバッチリでしょ？ソロモン海での激闘でも奮戦したんだから！
Light Cruiser Nagara! Please take good care of me!
Weighing in as a 5500 ton light cruiser, first ship of the Nagara-class, Nagara! I'm a bit of an old model, but I'm a high-speed torpedo-armed team-leading machine, so I'm just perfect to command destroyers, you know? I even fought hard in the difficult Battle of the Solomons!
22
Isuzu
五十鈴です。水雷戦隊の指揮ならお任せ。\n全力で提督を勝利に導くわ。よろしくね。
五十鈴は、大正時代に建造された長良型軽巡の２番艦。\n韋駄天さはもちろんだけど、私の歴代艦長の中からは、あの山本五十六提督、山口多聞提督など後の海軍を支える人物が多数輩出されたの。凄いでしょ？
I'm Isuzu. Leave the torpedo squadrons to me. I'll bring victory to the admiral with all my power. Pleased to meet you.
Isuzu was built in the Taisho period (1912-1926) as the second of the Nagara Class light cruisers. As you might expect my speed is top-rate; the admirals that commanded me in history include Admiral Yamamoto Isoroku, Admiral Yamaguchi Tamon, and many other pillars of the Navy. Amazing, huh?
23
Yura
長良型軽巡四番艦の「由良」です。\nどうぞ、よろしくお願いいたしますっ！
長良型軽巡４番艦の由良です。\n私たちの中では、初めて水上偵察機を搭載したの。\n水雷戦隊や潜水戦隊の旗艦として、活躍したのよ？\nドーントレスとかB17とかそういうのはちょっと苦手。
Fourth ship of the Nagara-class Light Cruisers, 'Yura'. Pleased to make your acquaintance!
I'm Yura, the fourth ship of the Nagara-type Light Cruisers. I was the first out of all of us to be equipped with seaplanes. I've served as the flagship of torpedo and submarine squadrons. I'm not so good with Dauntless and B17 planes.
24
Ooi
こんにちはー。軽巡洋艦、大井です。\nどうぞ、よろしくお願い致しますね。
球磨型軽巡洋艦の４番艦、大井よ。神戸生まれなの。\n平時は海軍兵学校練習艦として活躍したのよ？\nもちろん真打ちは、重雷装艦へのモデルチェンジよね？頑張るわ！
Hello. I'm Light Cruiser Ooi. Pleased to make your acquaintance.
I'm Ooi, fourth ship in the Kuma-class light cruisers. I was born in Kobe. I'm an active practice ship at the Navy School, you know? Of course, I'll change into a torpedo cruiser if I need to fight for real. Nice to meet you!
25
Kitakami
アタシは軽巡、北上。\nまーよろしく。
球磨型軽巡洋艦の３番艦、北上だよー。\nんあ？そう、大井っちとは親友。\n酸素魚雷を打ちまくる重雷装巡洋艦にステップアップできるってさ。\nやってみる？
I'm light cruiser Kitakami, nice ta meet 'ya.
It's Kitakami, the third ship of the Kuma class~. Hmm? Yeah, Ooi's my best pal. I heard I can go another step and become a torpedo crusier that machine guns out oxygen torpedos. Wanna try?
26
Fusou
扶桑型超弩級戦艦、姉の扶桑です。\n妹の山城ともども、よろしくお願い致します。
初の日本独自設計による超弩級戦艦、扶桑です。\n妹の山城ともどもよろしくお願いしますね。\nレイテ沖？　そうね、いつか突入してみたいわ。\nホントよ？
Of the two Fusou-class super-dreadnought battleships, I am the elder sister, Fusou. Please take care of me and my younger sister Yamashiro.
The first of the Japanese designs for the super-dreadnought battleship class, Fusou. Please remember to take care of my younger sister, Yamashiro, as well. Leyte Gulf? Oh well, I would like to go there someday. Right?
27
Yamashiro
扶桑型戦艦姉妹、妹のほう、山城です。\nあの、扶桑姉さま、見ませんでした？
扶桑型戦艦２番艦、山城です。\n「欠陥戦艦」とか「艦隊にいる方が珍しい」とか、いいたい放題ね…。\nでも、いいの。最後の時も、扶桑姉さまと一緒に戦えれば……
Of the two Fusou-class battleships, I am the younger sister, Yamashiro. Umm... have you seen Fusou nee-sama?
The second of the Fusou-class battleships, Yamashiro. "A faulty battleship." "A strange thing for the fleet to have." Everyone said things like that... but it was fine, as long as I could fight alongside Fusou nee-sama until the end...
28
Satsuki
皐月だよっ。\nよろしくな！
ボクは任務途中に何度も何度も怪我をしたけど、最後まで奮戦した睦月型駆逐艦５番艦さ。\n緒戦の後も、船団護衛などで各海域で頑張ったんだ。\nホントだよ。
I'm Satsuki. Good to meet ya!
I kept getting injured again and again on missions, but I fought bravely to the end as the fifth of the Mutsuki-class destroyers. After the war began, I did my best to escort the fleet and guard areas of the ocean. I really did!
29
Fumizuki
あたし、文月っていうの。\nよろしくぅ～。
睦月型駆逐艦７番艦の文月だよ。\n数々の海戦に参加したんだ。\n船団護衛中に大型船と衝突して大破…したこともあったっけ。あれはやばかったなー。
I'm Fumizuki. Nice to meet you~
I'm Fumizuki, the seventh ship of the Mutsuki-class Destroyers. I've been in many open-sea battles. I was once on a fleet escort mission when I collided with a large ship and... got really hurt. It was such a mess!
30
Kikuzuki
私が菊月だ、共にゆこう。
睦月型駆逐艦の９番艦、菊月だ。\n緒戦は数々の攻略作戦に参加。\nそして、船団護衛に従事したんだ。\nいや、護衛任務も大切なミッションだ……。
I'm Kikuzuki, let's move out together
I'm Kikuzuki, ninth of Mutsuki-class Destroyers. In the very early part of the war, I participated in lots of capture operations. And in the latter part, I engaged in fleet-guard. It may not look so, but fleet-guard is an important mission for certain.
31
Mochizuki
ん？あぁ、望月でーす。
睦月型駆逐艦望月でーす。\n第30駆逐隊に所属して各攻略作戦に参加したよ。\n何度も修理を繰り返しながら輸送任務に従事したぞ。\n結構頑張ったっしょ？
Hmm? Ah, I'm Mochizuki.
Mutsuki-class destroyer Mochizuki. I took part in several invasions as a member of the 30th Destroyer Squadron. I engaged in transport missions again and again while going through repeated repairs. Worked hard, didn't I?
32
Hatsuyuki
初雪……です……よろしく。
特型駆逐艦…３番艦…初雪…です。\n緒戦の作戦に…いっぱい参加しました…。\n輸送任務とかも…ん…がんばる……。
I'm... Hatsuyuki... nice to meet you.
Special-type destroyer... third ship... Hatsuyuki. At the start of the war... I participated a lot. Transport duties... yes... I'll work hard...
33
Murakumo
あんたが司令官ね。\nま、せいぜい頑張りなさい！
特型駆逐艦、５番艦の叢雲よ。\nえ、知らないって？　全く、ありえないわね。\n南方作戦や、古鷹の救援、数々の作戦に参加した名艦の私を知らないって、あんた、もぐりでしょ！
So you're the commander, huh? Well, I expect you to work very hard.
Fifth ship of the Special Type destroyers, Murakumo here. Huh? Never heard of me? You can't be serious. Don't even know a famous ship like me, who rescued Furutaka's crew, took part in the Southern Operations, and many other operations? Just how inept are you?!
34
Akatsuki
暁よ。\n一人前のレディーとして扱ってよね！
特Ⅲ型駆逐艦１番艦の暁よ。\n吹雪型をベースに航行性能や航続距離を向上させたの。特型駆逐艦の最終完成形なんだから！\nちゃんとレディーとして活躍したのよ！\nほ、ほんとなんだからっ。
I'm Akatsuki! Treat me like the fully-fledged lady I am!
I'm the first of the Special Type-III destroyers, Akatsuki. I was based on the Fubuki-class, with improved cruising efficiency and range. I'm the most refined of destroyers! I'm quite the lady, as you can see! I-I really am...!
35
Hibiki
響だよ。\nその活躍ぶりから不死鳥の通り名もあるよ。
数ある特型駆逐艦の中で最後まで生き残ったのが、響。転戦の後、あの大和水上特攻時には修理で同行できなかったんだ。\n賠償艦としてソ連に引き渡され「信頼できる」という意味の艦名になったんだ。
I'm Hibiki. I'm also referred to as "The Phoenix" from my exploits.
The sole surviving ship from a class of special-type destroyers, Hibiki. After many battles, I was being serviced, and could not accompany the suicidal Yamato Surface Special Attack Force. I was handed over to the Soviet Union as a war reparation, and given a name that means "reliable".
36
Ikazuchi
雷よ！　かみなりじゃないわ！\nそこのとこもよろしく頼むわねっ！
スラバヤ沖海戦では駆逐艦電と一緒に協力して、沈没した敵艦隊の生存者の救助に当たったのよ。\nただ強いだけじゃ、だめだと思うの。\nね、司令官！
I'm Ikazuchi! Don't read my name as 'Kaminari'! You'll do well to remember that!
Together with my fellow destroyer Inazuma at the Battle of the Java Sea, we rescued the survivors of sunken enemy ships. I think that strength alone just isn't enough. Right, Commander?
37
Inazuma
電です。\nどうか、よろしくお願いいたします。
スラバヤ沖海戦で、撃沈した敵艦の乗員の救助に努めた後、キスカ、ソロモン、ニューギニア、アッツ島など、各戦域を転戦しました…\n頑張ったの…です…。
I'm Inazuma. How... nice to meet you!
After helping to save the crew of an enemy ship sunk in the Battle of the Java Sea, I fought at Kiska, Solomon, New Guinea and Attu Island one after the other... I gave it my all.
38
Hatsuharu
わらわが初春じゃ。\nよろしく頼みますぞ。
初春型駆逐艦、１番艦の初春じゃ。\nわらわは、北方部隊に所属。戦雲渦巻くアッツやキスカなどの北方海域で活躍したぞ。北海道周辺も好きな海域じゃな。マニラ湾やオルモック…？ああ、熱いところは苦手じゃ。
We are Hatsuharu. We thank you in advance.
We are the first Hatsuharu-class destroyer, Hatsuharu. We were attached to the Northern Force. As the clouds of war gathers, we did our duty in the Northern seas at such places as Attu and Kiska. The seas around Hokkaido are our favourite, no? The Gulf of Manila and Ormoc... ah, we are weak to the heat.
39
Nenohi
初めまして、ねのひ、だよぉ！\n艦名、読みづらくなんか、ないよね？ね？
丸一計画で建造された初春型駆逐艦２番艦の子日だよ。初春などの姉妹艦で第２１駆逐隊を編成して色々と頑張ったんだよ。\nなに？潜水艦…？嫌いキライ！
Hello, it's Nenohi. I hope my name wasn't hard to read, yes?
I'm Nenohi, second ship of the Hatsuharu class built under the Maru-1 program. I'm working hard to organize many things for my 21st Destroyer Corps sister ships, such as Hatsuharu sister ships. What? Submarines ...? I REALLY hate them!
40
Wakaba
駆逐艦、若葉だ。
初春型駆逐艦３番艦、若葉だ。\nアッツ島沖海戦やキスカ島撤退作戦などに参加した。\nそうだ、北方海域だ。\nああ、濃霧には注意が必要だ。ぶつかりやすい。\n特に「初霜」、お前は要注意だ。
Destroyer, Wakaba.
Third of the Hatsuharu-class, Wakaba. I participated in the Attu and Kiska Island exit operations. Yes, the Northern forces. Ah, be careful of heavy fog. It's easy to get hit. Especially 'Hatsushimo', you need to watch out for her.
41
Hatsushimo
初春型四番艦、初霜です。\n皆さん、よろしくお願いします！
初春型駆逐艦の４番艦、初霜です。\nアリューシャン作戦、アッツ島沖海戦、キスカ島撤退作戦、マリアナ沖海戦、北号作戦、坊ノ岬沖海戦など\n様々な激戦に参加しました！\nほんと、頑張ったんです！
Fourth ship of the Hatsuharu class, Hatsushimo. Everyone, I'm very pleased to meet you!
Fourth of the Hatsuharu-class destroyers, Hatsushimo. I was in lots of hard battles like the Operation AL, the Battle of the Komandorski Islands, the occupation of Kiska, the Battle of the Philippine Sea, Operation Hoku-Go and Ten-Ichi-Gō! I really did my best!
42
Shiratsuyu
白露型駆逐艦一番艦、「白露」です！\nはい、一番艦ですっ！
初春型駆逐艦の次に開発された白露型の１番艦、白露だよ！　そう、１番艦だよ、１番艦。\n色々と改良された艦隊型駆逐艦なんだから！\nえ？慌ててタンカーと衝突しないようにって？大丈夫！
First ship of the Shiratsuyu-class destroyers, 'Shiratsuyu'!. Yes, the first ship!
Developed after the Hatsuharu-class destroyer, Shiratsuyu-class, number one, I'm Shiratsuyu! Yeah, number one, the first ship! With lots of upgrades, I'm a true fleet destroyer, you know! Eh? 'Don't be in such a rush that you'll hit a tanker'? Don't worry about it!
43
Shigure
僕は白露型駆逐艦、「時雨」。\nこれからよろしくね。
僕は白露型駆逐艦２番艦の時雨だよ。\nあのレイテ沖海戦では、西村艦隊に所属して、運命のスリガオ海峡に突入したんだ。\n扶桑も山城も凄かったよ……。皆が忘れても、僕だけはずっと覚えているから……。
I'm Shigure, of the Shiratsuyu-class destroyers. Nice to meet you.
I'm the second ship of the Shiratsuyu-class destroyers, Shigure. I participated in the Battle of Leyte Gulf under the Nishimura Fleet, in the fateful rush through Surigao Strait. Fusou and Yamashiro were amazing... Even if everyone forgets, I'll always remember them...
44
Murasame
はいはーい！白露型駆逐艦「村雨」だよ。\nみんな、よろしくね！
白露型駆逐艦３番艦、村雨よ。\n雨の名前の駆逐艦群なんてお洒落よね？\n姉妹艦の夕立たちと一緒に第２駆逐隊を編成したの。鼠輸送ですって？　失礼しちゃう、ガダルカナル島輸送作戦でも活躍したわ！
Yes ye~s! I'm the Shiratsuyu-class destroyer 'Murasame'! Everyone, nice to meet you!
Third of the Shiratsuyu-class destroyers, Murasame! Aren't all the Rainy destroyers stylish? With my sister ship Yuudachi, we formed the 2nd DesDiv. 'Rat Transport?' Well, excuse me, I did great at the Guadalcanal transport runs, you know!
45
Yuudachi
こんにちは、白露型駆逐艦「夕立」よ。\nよろしくね！
白露型駆逐艦の４番艦、夕立です。\n第三次ソロモン海戦では、けっこう頑張ったっぽい？\nでも、何気に「アイアンボトム・サウンド」って、ホントに怖い言葉よね？
Hi. I'm the Shiratsuyu-class destroyer, Yuudachi. See you around!
Fourth ship of the Shiratsuyu class, Yuudachi here. During the Third Battle of the Solomons, I stood up to them really poi, didn't I? But why does "Ironbottom Sound" give me the chills?
46
Samidare
五月雨っていいます！よろしくお願いします。\n護衛任務はお任せください！
五月雨です。\n村雨・夕立・春雨とは第２駆逐隊でお友達でした。\nそうそう、輸送任務中に白露と衝突してしまったことも…ホント、私ってば、ドジでごめんなさい。\nでも、頑張ります！
My name is Samidare! I look forward to working with you. Please leave any escort missions to me!
I'm Samidare. My friends Murasame, Yuudachi and Harusame, we made up DesDiv2. Oh yeah, during a transport mission, I crashed into Shiratsuyu... Really, I'm... sorry for being clumsy... But, I'll do my best!
47
Suzukaze
ちわ！涼風だよ。\n私が艦隊に加われば百人力さ！
涼風だよ。\n特型駆逐艦として、数々の攻略作戦の支援に参加したんだ。\nその後は戦艦や空母の護衛にも従事したよ。\n頼りにしてね！最後まで戦うから！
'ello! I'm Suzukaze. If I join the fleet it will be equivalent to 100 ships!
I'm Suzukaze. As a Special-class destroyer, I participated in lots of capture mission. After that, I escorted battleships and carriers! You can rely on me! I'll fight until the last!
48
Arare
霰です…\nんちゃ…とかはいいません…よろしく…
霰は、マル２計画で建造された最後の駆逐艦…。\n朝潮型シリーズの…最終艦でも…あるの…。\nこの後は…陽炎型だから…
Arare... I won't say 'ncha-'... Look after me...
Arare, last destroyer constructed under the Maru-2 programme... Asashio-class series'... final ship but... there's more... After that.... Kagero-class...
49
Kasumi
霞よ。\nガンガンいくわよ。ついてらっしゃい。
歴戦の主力駆逐艦として奮戦したわ。\n最後は戦艦大和と共に坊ノ岬沖海戦で米艦載機の猛攻と戦ったの。\n負けないわ！
I'm Kasumi, charging forth. Follow me.
I fought intensely as a main fleet destroyer in history. In the end, I fought alongside battleship Yamato in Operation Ten-go against the fierce attacks of American carrier-based aircraft. I won't lose!
50
Shimakaze
駆逐艦島風です。スピードなら誰にも負けません。\n速きこと、島風の如し、です！
艦隊型駆逐艦の最高峰を目指して開発された、高速で重雷装の駆逐艦、島風型よ。\n40ノット以上の快速なんだから。\nでも、量産には向かなくって、私一隻しか建造されなかったの。
I'm destroyer Shimakaze. When it comes to speed, I'm the best there is— swift like the island breeze!
Fast and armed with heavy torpedoes, developed as the pinnacle of destroyers— the Shimakaze class. I can go even faster than 40 knots. But... I wasn't suitable for mass production, so I was the only one built.
51
Tenryuu
オレの名は天龍。\nフフフ、怖いか？
天龍型１番艦、天龍だ。\n駆逐艦を束ねて、殴り込みの水雷戦隊を率いるぜ。\n相棒は、同型艦の龍田だ。\nあいつ、ちゃんとやってるかな？ま、いいけどな。
My name is Tenryuu. Heheh, ya scared?
First of the Tenryuu-class, Tenryuu. Along with some destroyers, I led raids in a torpedo squadron. My partner of the same class is Tatsuta. That girl... I wonder if she's alright? Well, whatever.
52
Tatsuta
初めまして、龍田だよ。\n天龍ちゃんがご迷惑かけてないかなあ～。
軽巡洋艦、天龍型２番艦の龍田よ。\n生まれは佐世保なの。\n天龍ちゃんがみんなに迷惑かけてない？\n心配よね～。\nえ？私？私は潜水艦が、ちょっと鬼門だわ～。
Nice to meet you, I'm Tatsuta~. I hope Tenryuu-chan hasn't been causing you trouble?
Light cruiser Tatsuta, second of Tenryuu class. I come from Sasebo. I hope Tenryuu-chan hasn't been causing everybody trouble? You really can't take your eyes off that girl, right? Huh? Me? Well, I'm not particularly fond of submarines~
53
Natori
名取といいます。\nご迷惑をおかけしないように、が、頑張ります。
長良型３番艦の名取です。\nちょっと古いモデルっていわれるけれど、高速軽巡洋艦として使い方はあるはず…\nそ、そう、水雷戦隊には、ぜひ配属してくださいね。\nが、頑張りますから！
I'm called Natori... I'll do my best not to trouble you!
Third ship of the Nagara-class, Natori. I'm a bit of an older model, but there is much use for a high-speed light cruiser too... Y-yes, a Destroyer squadron, it'd be best if I was assigned to one, please. I-I'll do my best!
54
Sendai
川内、参上。\n夜戦なら任せておいて！
5500トン級の軽巡洋艦の最終タイプ、それが私、川内型よ。\n熟成された軽巡の魅力、たっぷり教えてあげるから。\nもちろん、夜戦でね！
Sendai has arrived. Please leave the night battle to me.
I am the culmination of the 5500-ton light cruisers, the Sendai-class. I'll fully teach you the appeal of a mature light cruiser. Of course, it'll be with a night battle!
55
Jintsuu
あの……軽巡洋艦、神通です。\nどうか、よろしくお願い致します……
神通です。近代化改装を受け、\n第２水雷戦隊の旗艦を務めました。\nコロンバンガラ島沖海戦では先頭に立って奮戦します。でも、みんな私の事狙うんですもの…ひどいわ……。
Um... I'm light cruiser Jintsuu... how... nice to meet you...
I'm Jintsuu. I received an upgrade and was assigned as the flagship of the Second Torpedo Squadron. I fought bravely as the vanguard in the Battle of Kolombangara Island. But... everybody... focused their fire on me... how cruel...
56
Naka
艦隊のアイドル、那珂（なか）ちゃんだよー！\nよっろしくぅ！
第４水雷戦隊のセンターも務めた那珂だよ！\nお仕事沢山入ってて、輸送船の護衛任務や、トラック島から南方への輸送任務とか…\n…え、地方巡業じゃんって？ そんなことないしっ！
The fleet's idol, Naka-chan!Nice to meet you!
Selected as the Centre of DesRon 4, it's Naka-chan! Doing lots of work, from guarding transports to doing the Tokyo Express from Truk... Eh? Was it a Provincial tour, you ask? That is SO not what I was doing!
57
Ooi Kai
重雷装艦として、生まれ変わった大井です。\nお久しぶりです！
重雷装艦バージョンの大井です。\n圧倒的な水雷戦力を期待されたけど、\n出番がなかなかなかったの。\n今度は活躍してみせるわ。見ていてね！
I'm torpedo cruiser Ooi. By the way, I wonder where Kitakami-san is.
It's Ooi, torpedo cruiser edition. My torpedo powers were counted in, but I didn't have much of the limelight. I'll show you what I'm made of this time. Keep your eyes open!
58
Kitakami Kai
新しい北上、それがアタシ。\n酸素魚雷を満載して、ちょっと大人になったでしょ。
九三式酸素魚雷を満載、片舷20門、全40門の魚雷発射管を誇る、重雷装艦へと改装されたスーパー北上さまだよ。\nその威力は圧倒的と言われていたけれど、活躍する機会が微妙になかったんだよね。ちぇっ。
A brand new Kitakami... that's me, all right. I feel a lot more grown up, loaded to the brim with oxygen torpedoes.
It's Super Kitakami-sama, equipped with type-93 oxygenated torpedos, with 20 firing tubes on each side. It's been said that I have overpowering strength, but I did not really get any chances to shine. Bah.
59
Furutaka
古鷹と言います。重巡洋艦のいいところ、\nたくさん知ってもらえると嬉しいです。
重巡洋艦、古鷹です。\n三川提督率いる第８艦隊の一員として、第一次ソロモン海戦では敵艦多数を撃破したんですよ！\nこれが、重巡なんです！
I'm Furutaka. I'll be happy to show how all the good points of heavy cruisers.
Heavy cruiser, Furutaka. Selected by Vice Admiral Mikawa to be a member of the eighth fleet, I took out a lot of enemies at the first Battle of Solomon! This is what a heavy cruiser can do!
60
Kako
古鷹型重巡の2番艦、加古ってんだ、よっろしくぅー！
古鷹型重巡洋艦の２番艦、加古だよぉ。\n第一次ソロモン海戦で大活躍したんだからね！\nあ、帰り道？ホント、行きはよいよい、帰りは怖い～ってね！
Second Furutaka Class Heavy Cruiser, name's Kako! Nice to meetcha!
I'm the Second Furutaka Class Heavy Cruiser, Kako. I achieved quite a feat during the Battle of Savo Islands! Ah, the way back? Well, the verse "Going in is easy, but returning is scary" was no joke!
61
Aoba
ども、恐縮です、青葉ですぅ！\n一言お願いします！
青葉です。トラック諸島方面へ進出して、\n中部太平洋作戦を支えました。\n従軍作家さんも乗り込んで青葉のスタッフの仕事振りを取材したことも。最期の時は、呉の港で。\n動かす油もなかったけど、青葉、頑張りました！
Hi, thanks for your time, I'm Aoba! Please can I have some words!
I'm Aoba. Advancing into the Truk Islands area, I supported the Pacific Front. With a war correspondent on board, the staff also had reporting as part of their job. At my last moment, I was at Kure. Even without fuel, I did my best!
62
Myoukou
私、妙高型重巡洋艦、妙高と申します。\n共に頑張りましょう。
ワシントン海軍軍縮条約下で建造された重巡洋艦です。平賀譲氏設計による日本海軍の第一級の戦闘艦です。\n現代の海上自衛隊のイージス艦にも、その名は受け継がれています。
I am Myoukou, of the Myoukou-class Heavy Cruisers. Let us work on this together.
A heavy cruiser built under the auspices of the Washington Naval Treaty. I'm a first-class warship of the Japanese Navy designed by Yuzuru Hiraga. This name has also been passed on to Aegis destroyers of the modern MSDF.
63
Nachi
貴様が司令官か。\n私は那智。よろしくお願いする。
生れは呉海軍工廠。妙高型重巡２番艦の私は、上海事変にも警備出動したぞ。\n太平洋戦線では第五艦隊の旗艦として暴れまわったさ。敵艦載機？　ああ、あれは少し苦手だな。
You are my commander? I'm Nachi. I appreciate your contribution.
Born at the Kure Naval Yards. I am the second of the Myoukou Heavy Cruisers, who was the guardian of Shanghai. I was rushed out to the Pacific front as a flagship of the fifth fleet. Carrier-based planes? Ah, I'm a bit bad with those.
64
Ashigara
足柄よ。砲雷撃戦が得意なの。\nふふ、よろしくね。
私、足柄が英国の観艦式に参加した時のことよ。\nまるで「飢えた狼のよう」と評価されたの。\n当然よね！この精悍なボディ！\nえ？それは色気がないって嫌味じゃないかって？\nそんなことあるわけ…ナイじゃない！
I'm Ashigara. My specialty is surface combat. Nice to meet you.
I am the Ashigara that participated in the English fleet review, you know. I was acknowledged as the 'Hungry Wolf'. But of course! With this fearless body! Eh? That's got nothing to do with my sex appeal? And wasn't even a praise? There's... no way that's right!
65
Haguro
羽黒です。妙高型重巡洋艦姉妹の末っ娘です。\nあ、あの…ごめんなさいっ！
長崎で生まれたの。\nスラバヤ沖海戦、珊瑚海海戦、ミッドウェー海戦、第二次ソロモン海戦、マリアナ海戦など数々の海戦に参加しました。\nあの…頑張ります！
I'm Haguro. I'm the youngest of the Myoukou-class heavy cruiser sisters. U-um... I'm sorry!
I was born in Nagasaki. I participated in many battles, in the Battle of the Java Sea, the Battle of the Coral Sea, the Battle of Midway, the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, and the Battle of the Philippine Sea. Um... I try my best!
66
Takao
こんにちは。高雄です。\n貴方のような素敵な提督で良かったわ。
巡洋艦といえば、なんといっても、私、高雄型よね。\n近藤中将麾下の第４戦隊に所属して、数々の海戦に参加しました。\n激戦を戦い抜いて最期はシンガポール防衛に努めたの。
Good morning. I'm Takao. It's great that you look like an excellent Admiral.
If you're talking about cruisers, no matter how you look at it, it has to be me, Takao! Attached to Vice Admiral Kondo's fourth fleet, I participated in many naval battles. Overcoming these hard-fought conflicts, I concluded with a diligent defence of Singapore.
67
Atago
私は愛宕、提督、覚えてくださいね。
高雄型の２番艦、愛宕よ、うふふ。\n呉海軍工廠で生まれたの。\nバランスがとれた重武装ボディでしょ？\nレイテ沖の決戦では、第一遊撃部隊の旗艦として出撃したんだけど……ま、そんなこともあるわよね。
I'm Atago. Admiral, please remember that, okay?
Second of the Takao-class, Atago. Ufufu! I was born at the Kure Naval Arsenal. Don't I have a well-balanced and heavily armed body? At the decisive Battle of Leyte Gulf, I deployed as the flagship of the Central Force... Well, things happened, you know?
68
Maya
よ！アタシ、摩耶ってんだ、よろしくな。
高雄型重巡洋艦３番艦の摩耶さまだ。\n生まれは神戸。南方作戦や激戦のソロモン海で暴れまくってやったぜ！\nああん？　レイテ？\nんだよ、潜水艦って奴は苦手だよ。
Yo! Name's Maya, nice to meet you.
Third of the Takao-class heavy cruisers, Maya-sama! Kobe-built. I went hard in the Southern Ops and Solomon battles! Haah? Leyte? Nah, I'm not great with subs.
69
Choukai
私が鳥海です。よろしくです。
高雄型の４番艦、鳥海です。\nマレー、ソロモン、マリアナ、レイテと数々の作戦に参加しました。\n鳥海の名は、現在、海自のイージス護衛艦、その４番艦に受け継がれています。
I am Choukai. My best regards.
Fourth of the Takao-class ships, Choukai. Deployed to Malaya, Solomon, Marianas and Leyte Gulf for many operations. My name is now given to a JSDF AEGIS-equipped escort vessel, fourth in its class.
70
Mogami
ボクが最上さ。\n大丈夫、今度は衝突しないって。ホントだよ。
重巡洋艦、最上型のネームシップ、最上だよ。\n三連主砲がいい感じでしょ？\nそうそう、ボク、ちょっと他の艦とよくブツかっちゃう癖があるんだけど、なんでだろ？
I'm Mogami. It's alright, I won't collide with anyone this time. Really!
I'm the heavy cruiser Mogami-class nameship, Mogami. Aren't Three-barreled main guns great? Yeah, yeah, I've got a habit of bumping into the other ships, I wonder why?
71
Tone
吾輩が利根である！\n吾輩が艦隊に加わる以上、もう、索敵の心配はないぞ！
日本海軍が完成させた最後の重巡、\n利根型の長女、利根だ。\n真珠湾、そして痛恨のミッドウェーでも、艦隊の眼として縦横無尽の活躍なのじゃ。最期は呉鎮守府を守る浮き砲台として刀折れ矢尽きるまで戦ったぞ。
I am Tone! With my addition to the fleet, there will be no problems searching out the enemy!
The last completed heavy cruiser of the Japanese Navy, oldest sister of the Tone-class, Tone. At Pearl Harbor and Midway, as the eye for the fleet, I unceasingly watched the length and breadth of the ocean. I ended out the war protecting the Kure Naval Yards as a floating fortress, fighting until my blades were broken, arrows were depleted.
72
Chikuma
はじめまして、利根型２番艦、筑摩と申します。
筑摩です。\n連装主砲４基を前甲板に集中させ、充実した索敵水偵を搭載した利根型重巡洋艦２番艦です。\n生まれは長崎よ。利根姉さんと一緒に、あの南雲機動部隊の、大切な眼の役目を務めたの。
Pleased to meet you. Second of the Tone-class, Chikuma.
I'm Chikuma. Carrying 4 twin cannons on the foredeck, and with substantial reconnaissance capability, I am the second of the Tone-class heavy cruisers. Together with Tone nee-san, I acted as the important eyes of the Nagumo task force.
73
Mogami Kai
提督、また会ったね？最上だよ。\nボクの飛行甲板どう？似合ってる？
最上型重巡洋艦１番艦。\n最上の後部主砲を全て取り払って、代わりに水上機を運用する航空甲板を設置した、航空巡洋艦だよ。\n水上機母艦並の航空力と火力、どうよ！
We meet again, Admiral. It's Mogami. How's my flight deck? Does it suit me?
First of the Mogami-class heavy cruisers. By taking off my stern cannons and replacing them with an aviation deck, the Aviation Cruiser was developed! Equal fire and air power, howzat!
74
Shouhou
軽空母、祥鳳です。はい、ちょっと小柄ですけど、\nぜひ提督の機動部隊に加えてくださいね！
祥鳳型航空母艦１番艦です。\n元々は潜水母艦だったんです。\n前衛艦隊や主力じゃない小艦隊に空母を配属するなら、ぜひ私を使ってね！\n運用によってはお役に立つはずです！
I'm the light aircraft carrier, Shouhou. Yes, I'm a little small, but please make a place for me on your fleet!
First of the Shouhou-class aircraft carriers. Originally, a submarine tender. If it's not the flagship or the main fleet but a small task-force, then by all means use me! If you make use of me, I'll surely get good results!
75
Hiyou
名前は出雲ま…じゃなかった、飛鷹です。\n航空母艦よ。よろしくね、提督！
飛鷹よ。\n北米航路用の新造客船「出雲丸」を建造途中で改装した商船改造空母なの。\nでも、正規空母並の活躍を見せたんだから。ホントよ。
My name is Izumo Ma... No, Hiyou. I'm an aircraft carrier. Pleased to meet you, Admiral!
I'm Hiyou! Converted from the Northern line passenger liner 'Izumo-maru' into a carrier. But, I was able to operate at the same level as a full aircraft carrier. It's the truth!
76
Ryuujou
軽空母、龍驤や。独特なシルエットでしょ？\nでも、艦載機を次々繰り出す、\nちゃーんとした空母なんや。期待してや！
軽空母だけど、結構歴戦の空母なんよ、うち。\nああ、あの岩手沖での第四艦隊事件のこと？あれはきつかったー。\n波浪で艦橋圧壊…いや、ホントありえへん。
Light aircraft carrier, Ryuujou! Ain't my silhouette distinctive? Actually... launchin' carrier planes one after another is right proper for a carrier, ya know! You can count on me!
I might be a light aircraft carrier, but I'm a carrier with a distinguished record, ya know? Ah, that Fourth Fleet incident thing, off Iwate? That one was right tough. The waves went and collapsed my bridge... Dang, I just couldn't believe☆ it.
77
Ise
超弩級戦艦、伊勢型の１番艦、伊勢。\n参ります！
扶桑型戦艦を再設計した、強力な超弩級戦艦として完成しました。戦艦、伊勢です。\n主砲を多少とっちゃって、有名な航空戦艦モードに改造可能よ。楽しみね！
Super-dreadnought, first of the Ise-class, Ise. Setting off!
Based on the Fusou-class battleships, the strong firepower super-dreadnought. Battleship, Ise. By taking off a few of the main cannons, I can be upgraded to the famous Aviation Battleship mode! I'm looking forward to it!
78
Kongou
英国で生まれた帰国子女の金剛デース。\nヨロシクオネガイシマース！
超弩級戦艦として建造技術導入を兼ねて英国ヴィッカース社で建造された、金剛デース！\n太平洋戦域でも持前の高速力を活かして大活躍デース！期待してネ！
It's the English-born returnee, Kongou, desu! Nice to meet you!
The super-dreadnought fitted with Western technology at Vickers in England, Kongou, desu! Here in the Pacific Theatre, I'll use the power of my speed to be of great use, desu! Look forward to it!
79
Haruna
高速戦艦、榛名、着任しました。\nあなたが提督なのね？　よろしくお願い致します。
高速の巡洋戦艦、榛名です。\n国産の四一式36センチ砲を装備しました。\n呉鎮守府の江田島で最後まで空を睨んで奮戦したわ。\n高速戦艦四姉妹で最期まで、戦い抜いた榛名のこと、覚えていてね。
Fast battleship, Haruna, reporting for duty. You're the admiral, correct? I'm looking forward to working with you!
I'm the fast battleship, Haruna. I was equipped with a set of four domestically-made 36 cm cannons. I stayed bravely watching the sky over Etajima village's Kure naval base 'til the very end. Please remember Haruna who, of all four fast battleship sisters, was able to fight 'til the bitter end, okay?.
80
Nagato
私が、戦艦長門だ。よろしく頼むぞ。\n敵戦艦との殴り合いなら任せておけ。
八八艦隊計画の第一号艦として生まれた、長門型戦艦のネームシップ、長門だ。\n大和型が就役するまで、連合艦隊旗艦も務めていたさ。世界のビッグ７と云われてもいたな。
I am the battleship Nagato. I'll be counting on you. Leave the enemy battleships to me.
The first battleship born under the Eight-Eight Fleet Program and nameship of the Nagato-class battleships, Nagato here. Until the Yamato-class was commissioned, I served as the flagship of the Combined Fleet. I was known around the world as one of the "Big Seven".
81
Mutsu
長門型戦艦２番艦の陸奥よ。よろしくね。\nあまり火遊びはしないでね…お願いよ。
長門型戦艦の２番艦として生まれた陸奥よ。\nもちろん、世界のビッグ７の一艦になるわね。\nえ？主砲火薬庫爆発事故？\nまあ、隠してもしょうがないわね。今度は大丈夫よ！
Battleship Nagato class's second ship, Mutsu. Pleased to meet you. Don't play with fire too much, okay? Please...
Battleship Nagato class's second ship and from there (referring to her name), Mutsu. Of course, I'm part of the world's Big 7. Ehh? The gunpowder explosion accident? Well, can't cover it up anymore right? This time will be fine!
82
Ise Kai
航空戦艦、伊勢です。\n後部飛行甲板と、カタパルト２基で\n航空戦力を運用可能よ！
洋上航空戦力強化のために、主砲を一部外して、かわりに飛行甲板を設置、軽空母並の航空戦力を運用可能な航空戦艦、伊勢です。\n海自の新鋭ＤＤＨにもその名は受け継がれているわ。
I'm the aviation battleship 'Ise'! With a rear-facing flight deck and 2 catapults, I can make use of the power of aviation!
To obtain the power of marine aviation, a main cannon was removed, and in it's place a flight deck was installed, granting the aviation power of a light aircraft carrier. Aviation battleship, Ise. My name was taken up by the newly-developed DDH of the Marine Self Defence Force.
83
Akagi
航空母艦、赤城です。\n空母機動部隊を編制するなら、私にお任せくださいませ。
航空母艦、赤城です。\n空母機動部隊の主力として快進撃を支えます。\n日頃鍛錬を積んだ自慢の艦載機との組み合わせは、無敵艦隊とも言われたんです。慢心…ですって？\nううん、そうかなあ……気をつけますね。
I'm the aircraft carrier, Akagi. If you're forming a carrier task force, just leave it to me.
I'm the aircraft carrier, Akagi. As a mainstay of the Carrier Task Force, I support its forward advances. A combination of diligent training and many proud air wings has earned us a reputation as an "invincible fleet". Overconfident, you say...? Hmm... you may be right... I'll keep it in mind.
84
Kaga
航空母艦、加賀です。\n貴方が私の提督なの？　それなりに期待はしているわ。
私、加賀は、八八艦隊三番艦として建造されました。\n様々な運命のいたずらもあって、最終的に大型航空母艦として完成しました。\n赤城さんと共に、栄光の第一航空戦隊、その主力を担います。
I'm Kaga, an aircraft carrier. Are you my admiral...? I will place my trust in your abilities.
I, Kaga, was built as the third ship of the Eight-Eight Fleet. Eventually, in a twist of fate, I was completed as a large aircraft carrier. Along with Akagi-san, we are the main force of the glorious First Carrier Division, with myself as flagship.
85
Kirishima
マイク音量大丈夫…？チェック、1，2……。\nよし。はじめまして、私、霧島です。
霧島です。姉妹艦の榛名には、頭脳は負けないわよ？\n純国産高速戦艦として、奮戦するんだからっ！\n現代の海自イージス艦にもその名は受け継がれたの。
Is the microphone's volume good? Check, 1,2... Okay. NIce to meet you, I'm Kirishima.
Kirishima here. I won't lose to my sister ship Haruna's brains! As a domestically-produced fast battleship, I'll work hard! One of the Aegis ships of the modern JMSDF succeeds my name.
86
Hiei
金剛お姉さまの妹分、比叡です。\n経験を積んで、姉さまに少しでも近づきたいです。
井上提督も愛した巡洋戦艦、比叡です。\nぴかぴかに肌を磨いて、御召艦としても活躍したの。\n大和型のテスト艦にもなったのよ、知ってた？\nえ？　ソロモン海戦？　そうよ、奮闘したわ！
I'm Hiei, Kongou Onee-sama's sister. I'm looking forward to gaining experience and getting closer to my sister's brilliance.
The battlecruiser that Admiral Inoue loved, it's Hiei. Even though I'm a shiny Imperial ship, I'll work my hardest. I was even the test-ship for the Yamato class, didn't you know? Eh? The Battle of Guadalcanal? Yes, I fought hard.
87
Hyuuga
あなたが提督？ふうん。いいけど。\n伊勢型戦艦２番艦、日向よ。一応覚えておいて。
伊勢型戦艦２番艦、日向。\nああ、そうだ。\nあの伊勢と一緒に航空戦艦になったんだ。\nもともとは、私の砲塔の事故もあるんだけどな。\n呉で朽ち果てる迄、戦うつもりだ。
You're the admiral? I see. Anyway, second ship of the Ise class— Hyuuga. Remember me, if you would.
Second of the Ise-class battleships, Hyuuga. Ah yes, I became an aviation battleship together with Ise you know. That's originally because an accident happened on my fifth turret. I'm fighting till I am sunk at Kure.
88
Hyuuga Kai
伊勢型航空戦艦、日向。\n推して参る。
航空運用能力を付与された航空戦艦、日向だ。\nレイテでも奮戦したぞ。\n戦略物資輸送作戦「北号作戦」も思い出深いな。\nああ、そうだ、海自のＤＤＨ「ひゅうが」に名は受け継がれている。
Ise-class Aviation Battleship, Hyuuga... Pushing forward.
I'm Hyuuga. I got the ability of carrying aircrafts, and now I am an aviation battleship. I fought bravely in Battle of Leyte Gulf. An operation of transporting tactical goods "Operation Hoku-Go", it is one with a lot of memories for me. Ah yes, JMSDF's DDH "Hyuuga" succeeds to my name.
89
Houshou
航空母艦、鳳翔です。\nふつつか者ですが、よろしくお願い致します。
航空母艦、鳳翔と申します。\n最初から空母として建造された、世界で初めての航空母艦なんです。\n小さな艦ですが、頑張りますね。
Aircraft carrier, Houshou here. Although I'm inexperienced, I look forward to your guidance.
I am the aircraft carrier known as Houshou. I was designed as a carrier from the beginning and I am the world's first aircraft carrier. I may be petite for a ship, but I'll do my best.
90
Souryuu
航空母艦、蒼龍です。\n空母機動部隊を編制するなら、私もぜひ入れてね！
航空母艦、蒼龍です。\n真珠湾攻撃から始まって、緒戦の重要な戦いに、主力空母の一隻として参加しました。\nえ？なに、ミッドウェー？なにそれ、美味しいの？
I'm the aircraft carrier, Souryuu. If you're making a carrier mobile fleet, you can count me in.
I'm the aircraft carrier, Souryuu. Starting from the attack on Pearl Harbor, the crucial battle that opened the war, I participated as an important frontline carrier. Eh? What? Midway? What's that? Is it tasty?
91
Hiryuu
航空母艦、飛龍です。\n空母戦ならお任せ！どんな苦境でも戦えます！
飛龍型航空母艦、飛龍です。…ん？蒼龍型改じゃないかって？いいじゃん、そんなこと。\nそれより、索敵は大切にねッ。空母戦は先手必勝！\n慢心はダメ、ゼッタイ。慎重に、そして、大胆に戦い抜こうよ！
Aircraft carrier Hiryuu here. Leave the carrier battles to me. I can fight on against any and all adversity.
Hiryuu-class aircraft carrier, Hiryuu here. Hm? Aren't I an improved version of the Souryuu-class, you asked? Don't sweat the small stuff! More importantly, scouting is crucial. In carrier warfare, the first to strike wins! Don't be blinded by pride! Carefully but boldly fight on through!
92
Junyou
商船改装空母、隼鷹でーすっ！\nひゃっはぁー！
戦時改造を前提に建造した豪華客船、橿原丸。\nその改装した姿が空母、隼鷹さ。\nちゃーんと戦い抜いて、最後まで生き残ったんだぜ。意外とやるでしょ？
Ex-merchant ship aircraft carrier, Junyo~! Woohoo!
Wartime remodeling based on the Luxury liner, Kashiwara Maru. The renovated appearance is the aircraft carrier, Jun'you. I fought properly, and survived until the end. Ain't I surprisingly capable ?
93
Oboro
アタシ、綾波型駆逐艦「朧」。\n誰にも負けない…たぶん……
綾波型駆逐艦７番艦の朧です。\n佐世保の海軍工廠生まれです。南方進攻作戦などに参加しました。熱いところの海の方がいいな。\nキス…か？　じゃなくって、寒いキスカ島は…あまり近づきたくない…かな。
I'm the Ayanami-class destroyer Oboro. I won't lose to anyone. Probably.
Seventh ship of the Ayanami-class, Oboro. Laid down in the Sasebo Naval Arsenal. I participated in the Southern operations. Hot places are better, aren't they? Kiss...? No, not that, the cold Kiska Island... I don't want to get close to that... I hope.
94
Sazanami
綾波型駆逐艦「漣」です、ご主人さま。\nこう書いてさざなみと読みます。
特型駆逐艦の１９番目、綾波型でいうと、９番艦の漣だよ。\n読みにくいって？貴方が字を知らないだけヨ。\n南雲機動部隊が真珠湾でボコボコやってる時、ミッドウェー島砲撃を敢行したよ。何気に凄くない？
Ayanami-class Destroyer 'Sazanami', Master. You write it like this, but read it as 'Sazanami'
Special-type destroyer number 19, ninth of the Ayanami-class, Sazanami. It's hard to read? Only you don't know that character, you know. I was with the Nagumo Task Force when Pearl Harbour was burbling, and headed off to bombard Midway. Wasn't that unexpectedly cool?
95
Asashio
駆逐艦、朝潮です。\n勝負ならいつでも受けて立つ覚悟です。
朝潮型駆逐艦のネームシップ、朝潮よ。\nバランスのとれた量産型駆逐艦として建造され、戦線を支えたの。\n私の進化改良型が陽炎型になるわね。
Destroyer Asashio here. I'm always prepared in case of a battle.
Asashio-class destroyer nameship, Asashio. We were designed as a balanced mass production type of destroyer for supporting the front lines. My remodeled form served as the basis for the Kagerou-class, you know.
96
Ooshio
駆逐艦、大潮です～！\n小さな体に大きな魚雷！　お任せください。
朝潮型駆逐艦の２番艦、大潮です！\n各戦線で活躍した後、あのガダルカナル島撤収作戦にも3回出動しました。\n支えてみせます！
Destroyer Ooshio reporting in! A small body with large torpedoes! Leave it to me.
Second of the Asashio-class destroyers, Ooshio! After being sent to the frontlines, I mobilized to Guadalcanal for evacuation missions three times. I'll support you!
97
Michishio
満潮よ。\n私、なんでこんな部隊に配属されたのかしら。
駆逐艦、満潮よ。\n姉妹艦の朝潮、大潮、荒潮とは、第８駆逐隊で腐れ縁の仲。でも、最後は離れ離れ。\n私は西村艦隊の一員として、レイテに突入を図ったわ。
Michishio here. Why did I get assigned to such a fleet?
I'm a destroyer, Michishio. I and my sisters Asashio, Ooshio, and Arashio were somehow assigned to the eighth destroyer squadron. But, we were separated in the end. Finally I broke into Leyte, as a member of Nishimura fleet.
98
Arashio
あら。自己紹介まだでしたかー。\n私、荒潮です。
神戸娘の駆逐艦よ？　そう、名前は荒潮。\n姉妹達とけっこう色々頑張ったのよ。\nでも、私の煙突に爆弾落とすのだけは、ちょっとやめてほしいわ。
Oh, I haven't introduced myself yet, have I? My name is Arashio.
I'm the Kobe girl destroyer. Yes, I'm Arashio. My sisters and I worked hard in a lot of places. The only thing is, I really do dislike having my smokestack destroyed by bombers.
99
Kuma
クマー。\nよろしくだクマ。
球磨型軽巡洋艦の１番艦、球磨だクマ。\n佐世保生まれだクマ。ちょっと古いところもあるけど、頑張るクマー。
Kumaa. Nice to meet you, kuma.
First ship of the Kuma-class light cruisers, Kuma kuma. Born in Sasebo kuma. I got some old parts, but I'll try my best, kumaa.
100
Tama
軽巡、多摩です。\n猫じゃないにゃ。
球磨型軽巡洋艦の２番艦、多摩だにゃ。\n水雷戦隊の旗艦として、ご奉公するにゃ！\nにゃ？多摩って名前だけど、猫じゃないもん！
Light cruiser, Tama. I'm not a cat, nya.
Second of the Kuma-class light cruisers, Tama nya. I did my duty as a torpedo squadron flagship, nya! Nya? Tama's my name, but I'm not a cat!
101
Kiso
木曾だ、お前に最高の勝利を与えてやる。
5500トン型の軽巡洋艦、球磨型の木曾だ。\nよろしくな。\nやれ、滑走台だ、カタパルトだ、そんなもんはいらねえな。\n戦いは敵の懐に飛び込んでやるもんよ。なあ？
It's Kiso. I'll bestow upon you absolute victory.
5500 ton Kuma-class light cruiser, Kiso. My regards. Runways and catapults... forget it. Don't need 'em. Battle is all about bringing it up close and personal. Right?!
102
Chitose
千歳です。\n日本では初めての水上機母艦なのよ。よろしくね！
水上機母艦千歳です。\n水上機を沢山運用できる優れものですが、給油艦として重油を他の艦に補給もできちゃうの。\n後期には、航空母艦に改装され、第一線で戦ったのよ。
I'm Chitose. I'm the the first Japanese seaplane tender. Nice to meet you!
I'm the Seaplane Tender, Chitose. Although I'm an exceptional ship capable of making use of seaplanes a lot, I was used as an oiler and supplied fuel to other ships. In the latter stages of the war, I was remodeled into an aircraft carrier and fought in the frontline.
103
Chiyoda
水上機母艦、千代田です。\n姉の千歳が、いつも迷惑かけてないですか？
水上機母艦として建造された千歳型２番艦、千代田です。\n甲標的母艦としても運用できるようになっているのよ。千歳お姉と一緒に頑張りますね！
Seaplane tender Chiyoda. My older sister Chitose isn't bothering you, is she?
Laid down as a Seaplane Tender, second of the Chitose class, Chiyoda. I was able to make use of midget subs, you know. I'll do my best alongside Chitose-onee!
104
Chitose Kai
ダイエットして空母になった千歳です！\n足も速くなったの。本でも出そうかしら！
水上機母艦千歳です。\n水上機を沢山運用できる優れものですが、給油艦として重油を他の艦に補給もできちゃうの。後期には、航空母艦に改装され、第一線で戦ったのよ。
I'm Chitose. I'm the the first Japanese seaplane tender. Nice to meet you!
I'm the Seaplane Tender, Chitose. Although I'm an exceptional ship capable of making use of seaplanes a lot, I was used as an oiler and supplied fuel to other ships. In the latter stages of the war, I was remodeled into an aircraft carrier and fought in the frontline.
105
Chiyoda Kai
空母になった千代田です。\nぜひ、千歳お姉と一緒に機動部隊を編制してね！
水上機母艦として建造された千歳型２番艦、千代田です。\n甲標的母艦としても運用できるようになっているのよ。千歳お姉と一緒に頑張りますね！
Seaplane tender Chiyoda. My older sister Chitose isn't bothering you, is she?
Laid down as a Seaplane Tender, second of the Chitose class, Chiyoda. I was able to make use of midget subs, you know. I'll do my best alongside Chitose-onee!
106
Chitose A
ダイエットして空母になった千歳です！\n足も速くなったの。本でも出そうかしら！
水上機母艦千歳です。\n水上機を沢山運用できる優れものですが、給油艦として重油を他の艦に補給もできちゃうの。後期には、航空母艦に改装され、第一線で戦ったのよ。
I'm Chitose. I'm the the first Japanese seaplane tender. Nice to meet you!
I'm the Seaplane Tender, Chitose. Although I'm an exceptional ship capable of making use of seaplanes a lot, I was used as an oiler and supplied fuel to other ships. In the latter stages of the war, I was remodeled into an aircraft carrier and fought in the frontline.
107
Chiyoda A
空母になった千代田です。\nぜひ、千歳お姉と一緒に機動部隊を編制してね！
水上機母艦として建造された千歳型２番艦、千代田です。\n甲標的母艦としても運用できるようになっているのよ。千歳お姉と一緒に頑張りますね！
Seaplane tender Chiyoda. My older sister Chitose isn't bothering you, is she?
Laid down as a Seaplane Tender, second of the Chitose class, Chiyoda. I was able to make use of midget subs, you know. I'll do my best alongside Chitose-onee!
108
Chitose-Kou
ダイエットして空母になった千歳です！\n足も速くなったの。本でも出そうかしら！
水上機母艦から空母に改装された千歳です。\nダイエットして体も絞って、脚も速くなったのよ。これなら機動部隊の一翼を担えるわ！\n頑張ります！
I'm the girl who took a diet and became an aircraft carrier, Chitose. I even got faster. Maybe I should write a book about it.
Renovated from a seaplane carrier to a carrier, I'm Chitose. Slimming down my body by dieting. My legs even became faster. This will let me play a part in the Task Force! I'll do my best for you!
109
Chiyoda-Kou
空母になった千代田です。\nぜひ、千歳お姉と一緒に機動部隊を編制してね！
水上機母艦から大改装を受けて、航空母艦にジョブチェンジした千代田です。結構ちゃんとした空母でしょ？\n千歳お姉と一緒に敵機動部隊と戦うわ！
The girl that became an aircraft carrier, Chiyoda. Of course, I'll be assigned to Chitose-onee's fleet, yes?
Heavily remodeled from a seaplane tender, I'm the job-changed aircraft carrier Chiyoda. I'm quite the carrier, no? I'll fight the enemy air force together with Chitose-onee!
110
Shoukaku
翔鶴型航空母艦１番艦、翔鶴です。\n一航戦、二航戦の先輩方に、少しでも近づけるように\n瑞鶴と一緒に頑張ります！
翔鶴型航空母艦１番艦の翔鶴です。\n海軍軍縮条約失効後に設計建造された、本格的な大型正規空母として就役しました。妹の瑞鶴と共に第五航空戦隊を編成します。あの惨劇の後は、先輩方の後を継いで戦線を支えました。
I'm Shoukaku, the first of the Shoukaku-class carriers. I will try my best with Zuikaku to try and live up to the names of my seniors in the first and second aviation divisions.
I'm Shoukaku, the first ship in the Shoukaku carrier series. I was designed and built as the first purpose-built large regular carrier to serve after the Washington Treaty was renounced. With my sister Zuikaku, we make the fifth carrier division. Following the tragedy, we followed in the footsteps of our seniors and continued to support the front lines.
111
Zuikaku
翔鶴型航空母艦２番艦、妹の瑞鶴です。\n幸運の空母ですって？そうじゃないの、一生懸命やってる\nだけ…よ。艦載機がある限り、負けないわ！
翔鶴型航空母艦２番艦、瑞鶴です。\n翔鶴姉と共に、ミッドウェーの後の第一機動部隊の中核として、矢尽き刀折れるまで奮戦しました。文字通り、最後の機動部隊が壊滅する、その日まで…。
Second of the Shoukaku-class aircraft carriers, the younger sister, Zuikaku. The lucky carrier, you say? That's not it— I just fight with all my might... you see? As long as I still have planes, I won't lose!
Second of the Shoukaku-class aircraft carriers, Zuikaku. Following the battle of Midway, I occupied a core position in the First Mobile Fleet along with Shoukaku-nee. I fought until the very last arrow was fired... which was literally the day the Mobile Fleet was completely annihilated...
112
Zuikaku Kai
翔鶴型航空母艦２番艦、妹の瑞鶴です。\n幸運の空母ですって？そうじゃないの、一生懸命やってる\nだけ…よ。艦載機がある限り、負けないわ！
翔鶴型航空母艦２番艦、瑞鶴です。\n翔鶴姉と共に、ミッドウェーの後の第一機動部隊の中核として、矢尽き刀折れるまで奮戦しました。文字通り、最後の機動部隊が壊滅する、その日まで…。
113
Kinu
きたきたぁ！　鬼怒、いよいよ到着しましたよ！
神戸生まれの鬼怒だよ。\n舞鶴の学校で訓練に励んだんだ。色々と大変になってきた後は、南西方面で頑張ったよ…　いやぁ、大変だったなあ。球磨ちゃんには随分と助けてもらったんだ。\nでも…パナイ島だけはマジパナイ！
Yeah yeah yeah! Finally, Kinu has arrived!
Born in Kobe, I'm Kinu! I trained well at the Maizuru School. After lots of dangerous things happened, I did my best in the Southwest... Well, that was bad too. Kuma-chan was suprisingly helpful too. But... Panay Island was seriously panai!
114
Abukuma
こ、こんにちは、軽巡、阿武隈です。
長良型軽巡洋艦の阿武隈です。\nはい…正直いって、北上さんは苦手です。なにあの人…でも、艦首もきれいに直して頑張りました！\n潮ちゃんも…ありがとね…。
H-hello, I'm Abukuma, a light cruiser.
I'm Abukuma of Nagara-class light cruisers. Yes... to be honest, I don't like Kitakami. What's with her... but, I endured and fixed my beautiful bow! Ushio too, thanks.
115
Yuubari
はーい、お待たせ？\n兵装実験軽巡、夕張、到着いたしました！
コンパクトボディに充実の重武装を施した実験艦的存在の軽巡、夕張です。私の残したデータが、様々な重武装新鋭艦開発の元になったんだから！\n機関室に一発？何いってんの？\nほんと…失礼しちゃうわ。
Oka~y, thanks for waiting! The experimental armament cruiser 'Yuubari' has arrived!
A compact body enriched with heavy arms, the experimental light cruiser, Yuubari. The data that I left behind, those various newly-developed naval heavy weapons were certainly the cause! A shot in the engine room? What are you talking about? Really... how rude you are.
116
Zuihou
瑞鳳です。\n軽空母ですが、練度があがれば、\n正規空母並の活躍をおみせできます。
祥鳳型軽空母、瑞鳳です。\n元々は高速給油艦として計画され、次に潜水母艦、最終的に軽空母として完成しました。\n小柄なボディだけれど、機動部隊最後の日まで敢闘しました！
I'm Zuihou. I'm a light carrier, but with proper experience, I'll be able to show you that I perform as good as an aircraft carrier.
I'm the Shouhou-class light aircraft carrier, Zuihou. Originally planned as a high-speed refueling ship, then a submarine tender, but finally completed as a light aircraft carrier. Though my body is small, I fought bravely to the last day!
117
Zuihou Kai
瑞鳳です。\n軽空母ですが、練度があがれば、\n正規空母並の活躍をおみせできます。
祥鳳型軽空母、瑞鳳です。\n元々は高速給油艦として計画され、次に潜水母艦、最終的に軽空母として完成しました。\n小柄なボディだけれど、機動部隊最後の日まで敢闘しました！
I'm Zuihou. How do my remodeled clothes look? I'll still do my best!
I'm the Shouhou-class light aircraft carrier, Zuihou. Originally planned as a high-speed refueling ship, then a submarine tender, but finally completed as a light aircraft carrier. Though my body is small, I fought bravely to the last day!
118
Ooi Kai Ni
重雷装艦として、生まれ変わった大井です。\nお久しぶりです！
重雷装艦バージョンの大井です。\n圧倒的な水雷戦力を期待されたけど、\n出番がなかなかなかったの。\n今度は活躍してみせるわ。見ていてね！
I'm torpedo cruiser Ooi. By the way, I wonder where Kitakami-san is.
It's Ooi, torpedo cruiser edition. My torpedo powers were counted in, but I didn't have much of the limelight. I'll show you what I'm made of this time. Keep your eyes open!
119
Kitakami Kai Ni
新しい北上、それがアタシ。\n酸素魚雷を満載して、ちょっと大人になったでしょ。
九三式酸素魚雷を満載、片舷20門、全40門の魚雷発射管を誇る、重雷装艦へと改装されたスーパー北上さまだよ。\nその威力は圧倒的と言われていたけれど、活躍する機会が微妙になかったんだよね。ちぇっ。
A brand new Kitakami... that's me, all right. I feel a lot more grown up, loaded to the brim with oxygen torpedoes.
It's Super Kitakami-sama, equipped with type-93 oxygenated torpedos, with 20 firing tubes on each side. It's been said that I have overpowering strength, but I did not really get any chances to shine. Bah.
120
Mikuma
ごきげんよう、三隈です。\n最上さんはどこにいらっしゃるのかしら？
最上型１番艦のモガミンとは、とっても仲がいいのだけれど、仲が良すぎて彼女とは衝突することも多いの…　ええ、そう…物理的に…私はちゃんと前見てるのよ？
Greetings, I'm Mikuma. I wonder where Mogami could be hiding?
I get along very well with Mogamin, the first ship in the Mogami class, but we get along too well sometimes and collide often... Yeah... literally... I do watch where I'm going, okay?
121
Mikuma Kai
提督、三隈、新型になりましてよ
最上型１番艦のモガミンとは、とっても仲がいいのだけれど、仲が良すぎて彼女とは衝突することも多いの…　ええ、そう…物理的に…私はちゃんと前見てるのよ？
Admiral, I've attained a new form!
I get along very well with Mogamin, the first ship in the Mogami class, but we get along too well sometimes and collide often... Yeah... literally... I do watch where I'm going, okay?
122
Maikaze
こんにちは！陽炎型駆逐艦、舞風です。\n暗い雰囲気は苦手です！
陽炎型駆逐艦の舞風よ。\nミッドウェーから南方作戦まで、戦場で舞い続けたの。同じ陽炎型の野分とは仲良しよ。あのトラック島が襲撃された時も近くにいてくれたわ。
Hello~! Kagerou-class destroyer, Maikaze! I'm not good in gloomy atmospheres!
Kagerou-class destroyer Maikaze! From Midway to the Southern Operations, I continued to dance across the battlefield. I'm good friends with Nowaki, a fellow Kagerou-class. When Truk Island was attacked, I almost made it.
123
Kinugasa
はーいっ！衣笠さんの登場よ！\n青葉ともども、よろしくね！
カタパルトをお初装備の衣笠さんよ、よろしくね。\nウェーク島攻略や珊瑚海海戦、そして、ソロモン海のアイアンボトムサウンドでも大活躍！\nでも…　飛行機っての？あれはちょっと嫌ね。
Ye~s, It's Miss Kinugasa's debut! Together with Aoba, take good care of me!
First to have a catapult equipped, Miss Kinugasa! Great to meet you. I performed magnificently in the capture of Wake Island and the Battle of the Coral Sea, and even the Solomon's Ironbottom Sound! But... planes, you know? I'm not really a fan...
124
Suzuya
鈴谷だよ！にぎやかな艦隊だね！\nよろしくね！
鈴谷は、最上型重巡洋艦の３番艦。横須賀海軍工廠生まれなんだよ～、ふふ～ん。巡洋艦の名前は川由来なんだけど、鈴谷は樺太の鈴谷川がその由来なの。知ってた？
I'm Suzuya! What a lively fleet this is. I'll be in your care!
I'm Mogami-class heavy cruiser number three. I was born at the Yokosuka Naval Arsenal. Hmhm♪ See, cruiser names come from rivers, so "Suzuya" comes from the Suzuya river in Sakhalin. Did ya know that?
125
Kumano
ごきげんよう、\nわたくしが重巡、熊野ですわ！
神戸生まれのお洒落な重巡といえば、わたくし、熊野ですね。マレー、ミッドウェー、ソロモン、マリアナと主要な名所、いえ激戦地に参上いたしましたのよ。\n最期は日本に帰りたかったけれど……。
Good day to you. I am the heavy cruiser Kumano.
The stylish Kobe-born heavy cruiser, why, it can only be myself, Kumano. At the famous Malaya, Midway, Solomon and Marianas hard-fought battles, I, of course, participated. I did want to return to Japan at the end however...
126
I-168
伊１６８よ。何よ、言いにくいの？\nじゃ、イムヤでいいわ…よろしくねっ！
生れも育ちも呉の潜水艦なの。あのミッドウェーの大海戦のあと、飛龍が最後の力で深手を負わせたヨークタウンに止めを刺したのよ！空母たちの仇はとったわ！\nあの大変な島への輸送任務でも頑張ったの。
I'm I-168. What? It's hard to say? OK, just call me Imuya. Nice to meet you!
I am a submarine born and raised in Kure. After that battle of Midway, I managed to land the final blow to Yorktown who defeated Hiryuu! Our carriers were avenged! I also worked hard running transport missions to that terrible island.
127
I-58
こんにちは！ 伊五十八です。\nゴーヤって呼んでもいいよ！苦くなんかないよぉ！
最初から頑張って最後まで戦ったんだよ。苦しくなってからだって、凄い重巡だって仕留めたし！\n任務を全うして、全てが終わった後、無事に呉の母港に帰ったんだ。
Hello! I-58 here! You can call me Goya. I'm not bitter!
I have fought hard from the beginning to the end. Even when the war had became harsh, I managed to take down that heavy cruiser! After fulfilling my mission and everything was all over, I managed to make it back safely to Kure, my home port.
128
I-8
グーテンターク…あ、違った、ごめんなさいね…\n「はち」と呼んでくださいね。
遣独潜水艦作戦の第二次遣独艦として、かの地に向かったのよ。そして、Uボートをもらったの。この作戦は5回行われたんだけど、機雷とか色々あって、無事往復できたのは私だけなんですって…そうね、機雷なんてダイッキライ！
Guten Tag ... ah, my mistake... sorry, please call me "hachi".
I made it to Germany as the second submarine sent on the transoceanic voyage. Then, I received a U-boat. This operation was carried out 5 times, but because of mines and other events, I was the only one who was able to successfully complete the return trip... yeah, I really hate mines!
129
Suzuya Kai
鈴谷だよ！にぎやかな艦隊だね！\nよろしくね！
鈴谷は、最上型重巡洋艦の３番艦。横須賀海軍工廠生まれなんだよ～、ふふ～ん。巡洋艦の名前は川由来なんだけど、鈴谷は樺太の鈴谷川がその由来なの。知ってた？
130
Kumano Kai
ごきげんよう、\nわたくしが重巡、熊野ですわ！
神戸生まれのお洒落な重巡といえば、わたくし、熊野ですね。マレー、ミッドウェー、ソロモン、マリアナと主要な名所、いえ激戦地に参上いたしましたのよ。\n最期は日本に帰りたかったけれど……。
Good day to you. I am the heavy cruiser Kumano.
The stylish Kobe-born heavy cruiser, why, it can only be myself, Kumano. At the famous Malaya, Midway, Solomon and Marianas hard-fought battles, I, of course, participated. I did want to return to Japan at the end however...
131
Yamato
大和型戦艦、一番艦、大和。\n推して参ります！
大和型戦艦一番艦、大和です。\n艦隊決戦の切り札として、呉海軍工廠で極秘建造されました。当時の最高技術の粋を結集されたこの体、二番艦の武蔵と共に、連合艦隊の中枢戦力として頑張ります！
First of the Yamato-class battleships, Yamato. Heading forth!
First of the Yamato-class battleships, Yamato.  As the trump card for the Decisive Battle, I was made in utmost secrecy at the Kure Naval Yard.  With the most up-to-date and sophisticated technology concentrated in my body, along with the second ship, Musashi, I will do my best as the centre of the combined fleet!
132
Akigumo
秋雲、着任！\n提督よろしくねっ！
横須賀生まれ横須賀育ちの秋雲さんだよ！陽炎型の中でも航続距離は南雲さんの目にも留まって、一航戦に入ったんだ。ていうか、自分では夕雲型だと思ってたんだけどな…ブツブツ…ま、いいや。その後、五航戦の護衛を務めたよ。翔鶴瑞鶴も描き残したかったな。
Akigumo, reporting for duty~ Look after me Admiral~
Yokosuka born and raised, I'm Akigumo! I'm in the the Kagerou-class, but my (overwhelming) cruising range caught the eye of Adm. Nagumo and so I joined the 1st CarDiv. I mean, I always thought I was a Yuugumo-class... (even our uniforms are the same)... *grumble, mutter*... ah, whatever. After that, I was assigned to guard the 5th CarDiv. I didn't get to finish drawing Shoukaku and Zuikaku, though...
133
Yuugumo
夕雲型一番艦、夕雲、着任しました。\n提督、甘えてくれても、いいんですよ？
最終量産型艦隊駆逐艦の一番艦。舞鶴生まれよ。惨敗のミッドウェー海戦が初陣よ。いいじゃない、別に。\nあの島への鼠輸送やケ号作戦、南太平洋海戦、キスカ撤退作戦などで奮戦したわ。ふう。
First ship of the Yuugumo-class, Yuugumo, has arrived. Admiral, it's okay to spoil me a bit.
First ship of the final mass-production destroyers. Laid down in Maizuru. My first battle was the ignominious defeat at Midway. It's okay, I don't mind. In the Tokyo Express to that island, Operation Ke, the Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands and the evacuation of Kiska, I fought bravely, no? *sigh*
134
Makigumo
夕雲型駆逐艦、巻雲といいます。\n夕雲姉さんを見習って、頑張ります！
夕雲型駆逐艦二番艦、巻雲です。\nホーネットの後始末、事情許さば拿捕曳航されたし…って云われても、結構無理ゲーだし…って、秋雲がこっち指差して笑ってるし。本当にもうなんなの？
Yuugumo-class destroyer, I am Makigumo. Following Yuugumo-neesan's example, I'll do my best!
I'm Makigumo, second ship of the Yuugumo-class Destroyers. While cleaning up after the Hornet, 'situation permitting, tow and capture it'... they said, but that was pretty much impossible... and now Akigumo's pointing and laughing at me. Seriously, what the heck?
135
Naganami
夕雲型駆逐艦四番艦、長波サマだよ！\nさーいくぜ、オーッ！
マル4計画で建造されて戦時就航した夕雲型四番艦、長波だ。栄光の第二水雷戦隊で縦横無尽の活躍したぞ。\nガダルカナル島では、田中頼三少将の名指揮で、敵の待ち伏せを完膚なきまでに蹴散らしてやったぜ。
I'm Naganami, the fourth ship of the Yuugumo-class destroyers. And off we go. Yeah!
I'm Naganami, the fourth ship of the Yuugumo-class destroyers, built and launched during wartime under the maru-4 project. I rampaged all over as a member of the proud Second Torpedo Squadron. At Guadalcanal, we gave an enemy ambush a beat down under the famous command of Rear Admiral Raizo Tanaka.
136
Yamato Kai
大和型戦艦、一番艦、大和。\n対空火器を大幅強化致しました！
大和型戦艦一番艦、大和です。\n艦隊決戦の切り札として、呉海軍工廠で極秘建造されました。当時の最高技術の粋を結集されたこの体、二番艦の武蔵と共に、連合艦隊の中枢戦力として頑張ります！
First of the Yamato-class battleships, Yamato. Now with much upgraded anti-air weaponry.
First of the Yamato-class battleships, Yamato.  The armada's trump card, I was made in utmost secrecy at the Kure Naval Yard. With the most up-to-date and sophisticated technology concentrated in my body, along with the second ship, Musashi, I will do my best as the centre of the combined fleet!
137
Agano
こんにちはーっ！\n最新鋭軽巡の阿賀野でーすっ。ふふ。
次世代の水雷戦隊の旗艦として設計＆建造された阿賀野型軽巡洋艦、その長女、一番艦の阿賀野よ。とってもとっても高性能なんだから！見てよ、この洗練された体…今度はゼッタイ本領発揮しちゃうからね。
Hello~! I'm the latest light cruiser Agano~. *giggle*
Designed and built as the next-generation of Torpedo squad flagships, Agano-class light cruiser, the eldest, is me, Agano! I've got the the high-end technology! Have a look, this refined body... This time, I'll certainly show off my special features!
138
Noshiro
阿賀野型軽巡二番艦、能代。\n着任しました。よろしくどうぞ！
新鋭阿賀野型軽巡の二番艦、能代です。能代独自の飛行機運搬軌条がチャームポイントなんです。\nレイテ沖海戦でも主力の栗田艦隊の一員として頑張りました！
Second light cruiser of the Agano-class, Noshiro, has arrived. Glad to meet you!
Second of the newly-developed Agano-class Light Cruisers, Noshiro. The lone aircraft rail is my charmpoint. Even in Leyte Gulf, I did my best as a main member of Kurita's task force!
139
Yahagi
軽巡矢矧、着任したわ。\n提督、最後まで頑張っていきましょう！
阿賀野型軽巡の三番艦、矢矧よ。\nマリアナ、レイテ、坊ノ岬と、後半の大きな海戦にはほとんど参加したわ。そうよ、最後の最後まで暴れてみせたの。私の記憶の途切れた後、大和はどうなったのかしら。ま、いいわ…　今度は全てを護りきるから！
Light Cruiser Yahagi, reporting for duty. Let's work at it together to the end, Admiral!
Yahagi, the third ship of the Agano-class light cruisers. I've participated in most of the major sea battles during the latter part of the war, including the Mariana Straits, Leyte Gulf, and Bonomisaki. That's right, I fought it out to the very end. I wonder what happened to Yamato, after my memories trailed off. Oh well... This time, I'm going to protect everything!
140
Sakawa
ぴゃん♪　阿賀野型軽巡四番艦、酒匂です！\n司令、よろしくね！
阿賀野型軽巡姉妹の末っ子、四番艦の酒匂だよ。\n生まれるのが遅すぎたかな、あまりお外にはいけなかった。矢矧ちゃんと一緒に行きたかったけど…舞鶴でお留守番したの。
Pyan♪ The fourth Agano class Light Cruiser, Sakawa! Commander, nice to meet you!
I'm Sakawa, the fourth ship and the youngest of the Agano-class light cruiser sisters. I was born too late, so I couldn't go outside much. I wanted to go together with Yahagi-chan... but I ended up guarding Maizuru.
141
Isuzu Kai Ni
五十鈴です。水雷戦隊の指揮ならお任せ。\n全力で提督を勝利に導くわ。よろしくね。
五十鈴は、大正時代に建造された長良型軽巡の２番艦。韋駄天さはもちろんだけど、私の歴代艦長の中からは、あの山本五十六提督、山口多聞提督など後の海軍を支える人物が多数輩出されたの。凄いでしょ？
It's Isuzu, remodelled. Leave anti-submarine and anti-air roles to me!
Isuzu was built in the Taisho period (1912-1926) as the second of the Nagara Class light cruisers. As you might expect my speed is top-rate; the admirals that commanded me in history include Admiral Yamamoto Isoroku, Admiral Yamaguchi Tamon, and many other pillars of the Navy. Amazing, huh?
142
Kinugasa Kai Ni
はーいっ！衣笠さんの登場よ！\n青葉ともども、よろしくね！
カタパルトをお初装備の衣笠さんよ、よろしくね。\nウェーク島攻略や珊瑚海海戦、そして、ソロモン海のアイアンボトムサウンドでも大活躍！\nでも…　飛行機っての？あれはちょっと嫌ね。
Ye~s, It's Miss Kinugasa's debut! Together with Aoba, take good care of me!
First to have a catapult equipped, Miss Kinugasa! Great to meet you. I performed magnificently in the capture of Wake Island and the Battle of the Coral Sea, and even the Solomon's Ironbottom Sound! But... planes, you know? I'm not really a fan...
143
Musashi
フッ、随分待たせたようだな……。\n大和型戦艦二番艦、武蔵。参る！
大和型戦艦二番艦、武蔵だ。\n長崎生まれだ。よろしく頼むぞ。\n姉妹艦の大和や信濃と同じく極秘裏に建造されたのさ。ああ、この主砲を存分に撃ち合いたかったな。今度は頼めるか…　ありがたい！
Hmpf, it seems that I've kept you waiting ... Second of the Yamato-class battleships, Musashi, has arrived!
Second of the Yamato-class battleships, Musashi. Laid down in Nagasaki. My best regards to you. As with my sister ships Yamato and Shinano, I was constructed under strict secrecy. Ah, I really want to be able to shoot these main cannons... I ask of you, may I? Excellent!
144
Yuudachi Kai Ni
こんにちは、白露型駆逐艦「夕立」よ。\nよろしくね！
白露型駆逐艦の４番艦、夕立です。\n第三次ソロモン海戦では、けっこう頑張ったっぽい？\nでも、何気に「アイアンボトム・サウンド」って、ホントに怖い言葉よね？
145
Shigure Kai Ni
僕は白露型駆逐艦、「時雨」。\nこれからよろしくね。
僕は白露型駆逐艦２番艦の時雨だよ。\nあのレイテ沖海戦では、西村艦隊に所属して、運命のスリガオ海峡に突入したんだ。\n扶桑も山城も凄かったよ……。皆が忘れても、僕だけはずっと覚えているから……。
146
Kiso Kai Ni
木曾だ、お前に最高の勝利を与えてやる。
5500トン型の軽巡洋艦、球磨型の木曾だ。\nよろしくな。\nやれ、滑走台だ、カタパルトだ、そんなもんはいらねえな。\n戦いは敵の懐に飛び込んでやるもんよ。なあ？
You're still worried? It's fine. Leave it to me.
147
Verniy
ヴェールヌイだ。\nその活躍ぶりから不死鳥の通り名もあるよ。
数ある特型駆逐艦の中で最後まで生き残ったのが、響。転戦の後、あの大和水上特攻時には修理で同行できなかったんだ。\n賠償艦としてソ連に引き渡され「信頼できる」という意味の艦名になったんだ。
I'm Hibi- Verniy. It's a name that means "reliable".
148
Musashi Kai
大和型二番艦、武蔵、推参する。\nどうだ…この色、装束も似合うだろう？
大和型戦艦二番艦、武蔵だ。\n長崎生まれだ。よろしく頼むぞ。\n姉妹艦の大和や信濃と同じく極秘裏に建造されたのさ。ああ、この主砲を存分に撃ち合いたかったな。今度は頼めるか…　ありがたい！
The second ship of the Yamato-class battleships, Musashi... Barging in! What do you think of this color? Does this look suit me as well?
Second of the Yamato-class battleships, Musashi. Laid down in Nagasaki. My best regards to you. As with my sister ships Yamato and Shinano, I was constructed under strict secrecy. Ah, I really want to be able to shoot these main cannons... I ask of you, may I? Excellent!
149
Kongou Kai Ni
英国で生まれた帰国子女の金剛デース。\nヨロシクオネガイシマース！
超弩級戦艦として建造技術導入を兼ねて英国ヴィッカース社で建造された、金剛デース！\n太平洋戦域でも持前の高速力を活かして大活躍デース！期待してネ！
150
Hiei Kai Ni
金剛お姉さまの妹分、比叡です。\n経験を積んで、姉さまに少しでも近づきたいです。
井上提督も愛した巡洋戦艦、比叡です。\nぴかぴかに肌を磨いて、御召艦としても活躍したの。\n大和型のテスト艦にもなったのよ、知ってた？\nえ？　ソロモン海戦？　そうよ、奮闘したわ！
I'm Hiei, Kongou Onee-sama's sister. I'm looking forward to gaining experience and getting closer to my sister's brilliance.
The battlecruiser that Admiral Inoue loved, it's Hiei. Even though I'm a shiny Imperial ship, I'll work my hardest. I was even the test-ship for the Yamato class, didn't you know? Eh? The Battle of Guadalcanal? Yes, I fought hard.
151
Haruna Kai Ni
高速戦艦、榛名、着任しました。\nあなたが提督なのね？　よろしくお願い致します。
高速の巡洋戦艦、榛名です。\n国産の四一式36センチ砲を装備しました。\n呉鎮守府の江田島で最後まで空を睨んで奮戦したわ。\n高速戦艦四姉妹で最期まで、戦い抜いた榛名のこと、覚えていてね。
152
Kirishima Kai Ni
マイク音量大丈夫…？チェック、1，2……。\nよし。はじめまして、私、霧島です。
霧島です。姉妹艦の榛名には、頭脳は負けないわよ？\n純国産高速戦艦として、奮戦するんだからっ！\n現代の海自イージス艦にもその名は受け継がれたの。
Is the microphone's volume good? Check, 1,2... Okay. NIce to meet you, I'm Kirishima.
Kirishima here. I won't lose to my sister ship Haruna's brains! As a domestically-produced fast battleship, I'll work hard! One of the Aegis ships of the modern JMSDF succeeds my name.
153
Taihou
そう…私が大鳳。\n出迎え、ありがとうございます。\n提督…貴方と機動部隊に勝利を！
航空母艦「大鳳」です。\n飛行甲板まで十分な防御を施された最新鋭の正規空母です。密閉型の格納庫も素敵でしょ？\nえ？　ガスが溜りやすい…ですって…失礼しちゃう。こ、今度は絶対に大丈夫！
Yes... I am Taihou. Thank you for your reception. Admiral... I shall bring victory to you and your task force!
I'm the Armoured Carrier, Taihou. I'm the newest and most advanced standard carrier that is armed with a flight deck. Aren't these enclosed hangars great? Hmm? You say that gas builds up easily? How rude. I-it'll be fine this time!
154
Katori
練習巡洋艦、香取です。\n心配しないで…。色々と優しく、\n指導させて頂きますから。
香取型練習巡洋艦一番艦の香取です。\nはい、練習遠洋航海の指揮は、お任せください。必ずや艦隊の練度向上にお力添えできると思います。え、戦艦との砲撃戦…ですか？それは用兵的にどうなのでしょうか。
I'm Katori, a Training Cruiser. Don't you worry... I'll be gentle in teaching you various things.
First of the Katori-class training cruisers, Katori. Right, leave the ocean navigation training to me. I believe I'll be a great help in furthering what the fleet attains out of it's drills, for sure. Eh, my firepower in comparison to a battleship... is it? I wonder, tactics-wise, how it is.
155
I-401
提督、ごきげんよう。潜特型二番艦伊401です。\nしおいって呼んでね。
伊４００型潜水艦二番艦、伊４０１です。\n地球をぐるっと一周以上余裕で航行できる長大な航続力と、特殊攻撃機「晴嵐」を３機搭載する潜水空母なんです。そう、戦略的秘密兵器…秘密なんだからっ！
Good day, Admiral. I'm I-401, the second ship in the special submarine series. Just call me Shioi.
I'm I-401, the second ship in the I-400 submarine series. I'm a submarine carrier capable of making a round trip around the world, and carries 3 units of the special attack plane "Seiran". Yes, it's a secret strategic weapon... it's a secret, okay?
156
Taihou Kai
おはようございます、改装済み大鳳です。\n甲板装甲を強化、防御力もさらに向上、\n提督のために…露天駐機で艦載機数も充実です！
航空母艦「大鳳」です。\n飛行甲板まで十分な防御を施された最新鋭の正規空母です。密閉型の格納庫やハリケーン・バウもいい感じでしょ？　装甲甲板もお化粧直ししてみたわ。どう？似合う？
Good morning! It's the remodelled Taihou! Reinforced deck armour! Even higher defence! An increase in open-air planes to boost capacity just for you, Admiral!
I am aircraft carrier Taihou. State of the art carrier with reinforced armour all round, including the flight deck. My enclosed hangers and Hurricane Bow look good don't they? My armoured flight deck has also been redecorated. How does it look? Do you think it suits me?
157
Ryuujou Kai Ni
軽空母、龍驤や。独特なシルエットでしょ？\nでも、艦載機を次々繰り出す、\nちゃーんとした空母なんや。期待してや！
軽空母だけど、結構歴戦の空母なんよ、うち。\nああ、あの岩手沖での第四艦隊事件のこと？あれはきつかったー。\n波浪で艦橋圧壊…いや、ホントありえへん。
158
Sendai Kai Ni
川内、参上。\n夜戦なら任せておいて！
5500トン級の軽巡洋艦の最終タイプ、それが私、川内型よ。\n熟成された軽巡の魅力、たっぷり教えてあげるから。\nもちろん、夜戦でね！
Sendai has arrived. Please leave the night battle to me.
I am the culmination of the 5500-ton light cruisers, the Sendai-class. I'll fully teach you the appeal of a mature light cruiser. Of course, it'll be with a night battle!
159
Jintsuu Kai Ni
あの……軽巡洋艦、神通です。\nどうか、よろしくお願い致します……
神通です。近代化改装を受け、\n第２水雷戦隊の旗艦を務めました。\nコロンバンガラ島沖海戦では先頭に立って奮戦します。でも、みんな私の事狙うんですもの…ひどいわ……。
160
Naka Kai Ni
艦隊のアイドル、那珂（なか）ちゃんだよー！\nよっろしくぅ！
第４水雷戦隊のセンターも務めた那珂だよ！\nお仕事沢山入ってて、輸送船の護衛任務や、トラック島から南方への輸送任務とか…\n…え、地方巡業じゃんって？ そんなことないしっ！
Naka-chan here! I've become more wonderful! Kyaha♪
Selected as the Centre of DesRon 4, it's Naka-chan! Doing lots of work, from guarding transports to doing the Tokyo Express from Truk... Eh? Was it a Provincial tour, you ask? That is SO not what I was doing!
161
Akitsumaru
自分、あきつ丸であります。\n艦隊にお世話になります。
自分は、陸軍の特種船…その丙型の「あきつ丸」であります。\n輸送や上陸戦ならお任せ頂きたいのであります。\n自慢はこの大発であります。ネズミやモグラな輸送とは訳が違うのであります。
I'm Akitsu Maru, sir. It is an honour to be part of this fleet, sir.
I am the class-3 of Army's special transport 'Akitsu Maru', sir. Please leave transportation and landing combat to me, sir. My pride is this Daihatsu, sir. I'm different from the mouse and mole, sir.
163
Maruyu
初めまして…まるゆ着任しました。\nえ？聞いてないって…そんなあ！
まるゆは海軍工廠出身じゃないので、同郷のお友達がいないんです。皆さんとちょっと違うっていうか…木曾さんには第一声で「何だお前、潜れるのか？」なんて言われちゃうし…まるゆ、ここで上手くやっていけるのかなあ…。
Nice to meet you... Maruyu, reporting for duty. Huh? You haven’t heard about it? ...Oh no...!
Maruyu isn’t from the Navy shipyards, so I don’t have any friends from home. I’m a little different from everyone else... I mean, the first thing Kiso-san said to me was “What are you. Can you actually go underwater?”... I'm starting to wonder if Maruyu can survive out here…
164
Yayoi
初めまして、弥生、着任…。\nあ、気を使わないでくれていい…です。
睦月型駆逐艦三番艦「弥生」です。\n横須賀の浦賀生まれ。「睦月」や「望月」と艦隊を組んで色々頑張りました。爆撃機とかは嫌い。よろしくね。
Yayoi, reporting for duty... Pleased to meet you. Please don't be too concerned about me...
Third of the Mutsuki-class destroyers, 'Yayoi'. I was born at Uraga, Yokosuka. Mutsuki, Mochizuki and I did our best as a task force. I dislike dive bombers. Please take good care of me.
165
Uzuki
やったぁ！ でたっぴょん！ 卯月でっす！ \nうーちゃんって呼ばれてまっす！
睦月型駆逐艦四番艦の「卯月」だぴょん。船団護衛から攻略作戦まで、頑張って働いたんでっす！\n最後のほうは砲をいくつか下して機銃を一杯積んだよ。\nうーちゃん、爆撃じゃ沈まないから！
Yay~! I arrived-pyon! My name is Uzuki, you can call me U-chan!
Fourth of the Mutsuki-class destroyers, 'Uzuki'-pyon. From convoy escorting to capture operations, I worked re~ally hard! Near the end I was loaded up with lots of machine-guns to down them all! U-chan won't be sunk by bombers!
166
Akitsumaru Kai
自分、航空兵力を充実させてみたのであります。\nこれはもう空母…であります…。
自分は、陸軍の特種船丙型の「あきつ丸」であります。強襲揚陸艦の先駆けのような自分でありますが、新兵器のオートジャイロなども運用して、対潜戦でも奮闘したいのであります。何卒お願いするのであります。
I have enhanced myself for air combat potential, sir. I am now a carrier, sir.
I am Akitsu Maru, of the Army's Hei class, sir. I was the pioneer of the modern amphibious assault vessel, able to operate new weapons such as auto-gyros, sir. We may not do so well in anti-submarine warfare. I most humbly look forward to working with you sir.
167
Isokaze
陽炎型駆逐艦十二番艦、磯風。\n大丈夫、私が護ってあげる。
陽炎型駆逐艦十二番艦、磯風だ。\n戦歴ならあの雪風にも遅れはとらぬ。数々の海戦、決戦に参加し、戦い抜いたんだ。大和・武蔵・金剛・大鳳…彼女達の最期もこの目に焼き付いている。今度こそ…護り抜くさ。
12th Kagerou-class destroyer, Isokaze. Don't worry, I will protect you.
12th Kagerou-class destroyer, Isokaze. If it's about combat experience, I won't fall behind that Yukikaze. I've fought again and again, participated in decisive battles, and fought to the bitter end. Yamato, Musashi, Kongou, Taihou... their last moments have been etched into my eyes. This time... I will protect them.
168
Urakaze
うち、浦風じゃ、よろしくね！
生まれは大阪、所属は呉。真珠湾からガダルカナルまで駆けまわったんじゃ。\n最期は金剛姉さんを護衛して台湾海峡…\nまぁ、もうどうにもならんなぁ……。
It's me, Urakaze, nice to meet 'ya!
Osaka-born, attached to Kure. I saw action from Pearl Harbor to Guadalcanal. My last moments were escorting Kongou nee-san at the Taiwan Strait. Anyway, there's nothing that can be done anymore...
169
Tanikaze
提督、谷風だよ。\nこれからお世話になるね！
谷風さんだよ。\nあのミッドウェー海戦では、飛龍を助けようとしてたらくそ敵機から雨あられの集中爆撃…。あんときゃまいったけど、勝見艦長がすげえんだ、マジで。
Admiral, I'm Tanikaze! I'll be in your care from now on.
Madam Tanikaze here! I was helpin' out Hiryuu during the Battle of Midway, damn enemy planes were dropping bombs on us like rain... Back then, C'mmander Katsumi was amazin' like seriously.
170
Hamakaze
駆逐艦、浜風です。\nこれより貴艦隊所属となります。
浜風です。数々の激戦に参加しました。\nレイテでは金剛を中心とした輪形陣。そして、武蔵や金剛、あの信濃の最期もこの目に焼き付けることになりました。運命の坊ノ岬では、雪風らと共に大和を護って奮闘します。
I'm destroyer Hamakaze. Henceforth I shall be assigned to your fleet.
I am Hamakaze. I participated in many fierce battles. At Leyte, I was a part of Kongou's ring formation. Futhermore, I burned into my memory the final moments of Musashi, Kongou and Shinano. At the fateful Bounomisaki, I, Yukikaze and many others struggled to protect Yamato.
171
Bismarck
Guten Tag.\n私はビスマルク型戦艦のネームシップ、ビスマルク。\nよおく覚えておくのよ。
ドイツの誇るビスマルク級超弩級戦艦のネームシップ、それが私よ。\nドイツらしい重厚かつ美しいデザインでしょう？\nいいのよ、もっと褒めても。\nこの海でも縦横無尽に活躍するわ。期待しなさい！
Good day. I am Bismarck, the nameship of the Bismarck-class battleships. You should remember it well.
It is I, the pride of Deutschland, the nameship of the Bismarck super dreadnoughts. Germanic designs are just beautiful and dignified, no? It's alright, you can praise me more. I shall be operating far and wide throughout this ocean. You can expect much from me!
172
Bismarck Kai
Guten Tag.\n私はビスマルク型戦艦のネームシップ、ビスマルク。\nよおく覚えておくのよ。
ドイツの誇るビスマルク級超弩級戦艦のネームシップ、それが私よ。\nドイツらしい重厚かつ美しいデザインでしょう？\nいいのよ、もっと褒めても。\nこの海でも縦横無尽に活躍するわ。期待しなさい！
Good day. I am Bismarck, the nameship of the Bismarck-class battleships. You should remember it well.
It is I, the pride of Deutschland, the nameship of the Bismarck super dreadnoughts. Germanic designs are just beautiful and dignified, no? It's alright, you can praise me more. I shall be operating far and wide throughout this ocean. You can expect much from me!
173
Bismarck zwei
Guten Tag.\n私はビスマルク型戦艦のネームシップ、ビスマルク。\nよおく覚えておくのよ。
ドイツの誇るビスマルク級超弩級戦艦のネームシップ、それが私よ。\nドイツらしい重厚かつ美しいデザインでしょう？\nいいのよ、もっと褒めても。\nこの海でも縦横無尽に活躍するわ。期待しなさい！
Good day. I am Bismarck, the nameship of the Bismarck-class battleships. You should remember it well.
It is I, the pride of Deutschland, the nameship of the Bismarck super dreadnoughts. Germanic designs are just beautiful and dignified, no? It's alright, you can praise me more. I shall be operating far and wide throughout this ocean. You can expect much from me!
174
Z1
Guten Morgen.\n僕の名前はレーベレヒト・マース。\nレーベでいいよ…うん。
ドイツ生まれの駆逐艦、その本格的な大型駆逐艦の一番艦だよ。\n高温高圧缶や機関部のシフト配置など、技術の国ならではの設計になっているんだ。あまり外洋での艦隊戦は得意じゃないけど…　頑張るよ！
Good morning. I'm Leberecht Maass. Lebe is fine, yep.
The German-born destroyer, the first genuine large-type. This shifted high temperature, high pressure engine, it could only have been designed in the country of technical skills! I'm not so great at open-sea warfare though... I'll do my best!
175
Z3
Guten Tag.\n私は駆逐艦マックス・シュルツよ。\nマックス…でもいいけれど。よろしく。
ドイツ1934年計画型駆逐艦、その三番艦よ。\n生存性の高い設計の本格的駆逐艦だけれど…新型のタービンは少し整備に難もあるけれど。\n今度は…大丈夫。
Good day. I am the Destroyer Max Schultz. But, Max is fine. Pleased to meet you.
Zerstörer 1934 program, third ship. I was designed with good survivability, but... these new turbines have a small issue with maintenance. This time... I shall be alright.
176
Prinz Eugen
Guten Morgen！\n私は、重巡プリンツ・オイゲン。よろしくね！
わ！びっくりした！\n私、ドイツ生まれの重巡、プリンツ・オイゲン。\nアドミラル・ヒッパー級3番艦です。\nビスマルク姉さんとライン演習作戦に参加しました。\n幸運艦…そう？　この海でも戦い抜きます！
Guten morgen! I'm the heavy cruiser, Prinz Eugen. Take care!
Woah! You startled me! Ah... I am the German-born heavy cruiser, Prinz Eugen. Admiral Hipper-class, third ship. Along with Bismarck onee-sama, I took part in Operation Rheinübung. A lucky ship... ...me? I'll be fighting in this sea, too!
177
Prinz Eugen Kai
Guten Morgen！\n私は、重巡プリンツ・オイゲン。よろしくね！
わ！びっくりした！\n私、ドイツ生まれの重巡、プリンツ・オイゲン。\nアドミラル・ヒッパー級3番艦です。\nビスマルク姉さんとライン演習作戦に参加しました。\n幸運艦…そう？　この海でも戦い抜きます！
178
Bismarck drei
Guten Tag.\n私はビスマルク型戦艦のネームシップ、ビスマルク。\nよおく覚えておくのよ。
ドイツの誇るビスマルク級超弩級戦艦のネームシップ、それが私よ。\nドイツらしい重厚かつ美しいデザインでしょう？\nいいのよ、もっと褒めても。\nこの海でも縦横無尽に活躍するわ。期待しなさい！
Good day. I am Bismarck, the nameship of the Bismarck-class battleships. You should remember it well.
It is I, the pride of Deutschland, the nameship of the Bismarck super dreadnoughts. Germanic designs are just beautiful and dignified, no? It's alright, you can praise me more. I shall be operating far and wide throughout this ocean. You can expect much from me!
179
Z1 zwei
Guten Morgen.\n僕の名前はレーベレヒト・マース。\nレーベでいいよ…うん。
ドイツ生まれの駆逐艦、その本格的な大型駆逐艦の一番艦だよ。\n高温高圧缶や機関部のシフト配置など、技術の国ならではの設計になっているんだ。あまり外洋での艦隊戦は得意じゃないけど…　頑張るよ！
Good morning. I'm Leberecht Maass. Lebe is fine, yep.
The German-born destroyer, the first genuine large-type. This shifted high temperature, high pressure engine, it could only have been designed in the country of technical skills! I'm not so great at open-sea warfare though... I'll do my best!
180
Z3 zwei
Guten Tag.\n私は駆逐艦マックス・シュルツよ。\nマックス…でもいいけれど。よろしく。
ドイツ1934年計画型駆逐艦、その三番艦よ。\n生存性の高い設計の本格的駆逐艦だけれど…新型のタービンは少し整備に難もあるけれど。\n今度は…大丈夫。
Good day. I am the Destroyer Max Schultz. But, Max is fine. Pleased to meet you.
Zerstörer 1934 program, third ship. I was designed with good survivability, but... these new turbines have a small issue with maintenance. This time... I shall be alright.
181
Amatsukaze
いい風きてる？\n次世代型駆逐艦のプロトタイプ、\nあたし、天津風の出番ね。
陽炎型駆逐艦九番艦の天津風です。\n次世代の艦隊型駆逐艦のための新型高温高圧缶のテストベッドを務めたのよ。データはしっかりとって、島風に渡したわ。幾多のピンチも頑張って乗り越えたのよ。\n大変だったんだから！
Is a good breeze on the way? I, the next-generation destroyer prototype, Amatsukaze, shall make my debut.
Kagerou-class destroyer, ninth ship, Amatsukaze here. I participated as the testbed of a new type of high-temperature, high-pressure boiler intended for the next generation of destroyers. When the data proved reliable, it was passed over to Shimakaze. I was in many tight spots, but I held on and overcame them. It was really tough!
182
Akashi
工作艦、明石です。\n少々の損傷だったら、私が泊地でばっちり直して\nあげますね。お任せください！
連合艦隊唯一の工作艦、明石です。\nトラック泊地に進出し、前線で損傷した艦艇の修理を担当したわ。トラック泊地が壊滅するその日まで、前線の艦隊を陰で支えたのよ。\nよろしくね。
I'm Repair ship Akashi. If you take a little damage, I can fix you up in the base. Just leave it to me!
I'm Akashi, the only dedicated repair ship in the combined fleet. I was in charge of repairing ships damaged in the front lines when I was stationed in the Truk Anchorage. I supported the fleet from behind right up until the destruction of the Anchorage. Pleased to meet you.
183
Ooyodo
提督、軽巡大淀、戦列に加わりました。\n艦隊指揮、運営はどうぞお任せください。
艦隊旗艦として特化設計された新鋭軽巡洋艦、\n大淀です。\n搭載予定の新型水偵の失敗や戦局の変化もあって、連合艦隊旗艦としてはあまり活躍できなかったの。でも、北号作戦や礼号作戦では活躍したのよ。私も前線で、頑張りますね。
Admiral, Light Cruiser Ooyodo has joined the battle lines. Please leave the fleet administration & supervision to me.
Designed as a cutting edge C&C flagship, the newest light cruiser, Ooyodo. There was a problem with the installation of the specified new model recon, & the battle situation changed, so I wasn't really able to undertake my role as the combined fleet flagship. However, I participated in the Northern Operation & the Operation Rei-Go. I, too, will do my best on the front lines.
184
Taigei
こんにちわあ。潜水母艦大鯨です。\n不束者ですが、よろしくお願い致します。
潜水母艦、大鯨です。\n潜水艦隊旗艦機能と補給物資や水上偵察機を装備して、潜水艦作戦を支援します。いざという時は空母に改装できる空母予備艦として設計されました。\n頑張ります！
Good day, I'm Submarine Tender Taigei. I may be inexperienced, but I am glad to be of service.
I'm Submarine Tender Taigei. I serve as flagship of submarine fleets in order to support operations through supplies and usage of scout planes. I have also been designed as a carrier backup to be converted if it is needed. I'll do my best!
185
Ryuuhou
潜水母艦改装空母の龍鳳です。\n航空母艦として、私、頑張ります！
潜水母艦改装空母の龍鳳です。\n機関の換装の影響で速度は計画通りには出なかったけれど、このクラスの軽空母としては充実の飛行甲板と兵装なんです。\n空母龍鳳、精一杯頑張ります！
Carrier Ryuuhou, remodeled from a Submarine Tender. I'll once again try my best as a carrier!
Carrier Ryuuhou, remodeled from a Submarine Tender. My speed was not up to plan specifications as there were issues with changing the boilers, but I have an enhanced flight deck and armaments as this Light Carrier class. Carrier Ryuuhou, giving it her all!
186
Tokitsukaze
陽炎型駆逐艦十番艦。\n時津風……出るよ。
陽炎型十番艦の時津風だよ。\n雪風、初風、天津風とで第十六駆逐隊を編成、仲良く色々と頑張ったんだよ。二水戦にもいたんだよ、ほんとほんと。\nでも、制海権の無い海は…ちょっと嫌かなーって。
Kagerou-class Destroyer tenth ship. Tokitsukaze... has arrived!
Tenth Kagerou-class Destroyer, Tokitsukaze. I worked hard in the 16th Destroyer Division with my friends Yukikaze, Hatsukaze, and Amatsukaze. I was also in the Second Torpedo Squadron you know, really, really. But...an uncontrolled sea seems...kinda unpleasant.
187
Akashi Kai
工作艦、明石です。\n少々の損傷だったら、私が泊地でばっちり直して\nあげますね。お任せください！
連合艦隊唯一の工作艦、明石です。\nトラック泊地に進出し、前線で損傷した艦艇の修理を担当したわ。トラック泊地が壊滅するその日まで、前線の艦隊を陰で支えたのよ。\nよろしくね。
Repair Ship Akashi, at your service! Leave the emergency maintenance at the base to me! I'll support the girls in the front lines!
I'm Akashi, the only dedicated repair ship in the combined fleet. I was in charge of repairing ships damaged in the front lines when I was stationed in the Truk Anchorage. I supported the fleet from behind right up until the destruction of the Anchorage. Pleased to meet you.
188
Tone Kai Ni
吾輩が利根である！\n吾輩が艦隊に加わる以上、もう、索敵の心配はないぞ！
日本海軍が完成させた最後の重巡、\n利根型の長女、利根だ。\n真珠湾、そして痛恨のミッドウェーでも、艦隊の眼として縦横無尽の活躍なのじゃ。最期は呉鎮守府を守る浮き砲台として刀折れ矢尽きるまで戦ったぞ。
I am Tone! With my addition to the fleet, there will be no problems searching out the enemy!
The last completed heavy cruiser of the Japanese Navy, oldest sister of the Tone-class, Tone. At Pearl Harbor and Midway, as the eye for the fleet, I unceasingly watched the length and breadth of the ocean. I ended out the war protecting the Kure Naval Yards as a floating fortress, fighting until my blades were broken, arrows were depleted.
189
Chikuma Kai Ni
はじめまして、利根型２番艦、筑摩と申します。
筑摩です。\n連装主砲4基を前甲板に集中させ、充実した索敵水偵を搭載した利根型重巡洋艦２番艦です。\n生まれは長崎よ。利根姉さんと一緒に、あの南雲機動部隊の、大切な眼の役目を務めたの。
Second ship of the Tone-class, aviation-cruiser Chikuma. I'll do my best with nee-san.
I'm Chikuma. Carrying 4 twin cannons on the foredeck, and with substantial reconnaissance capability, I am the second of the Tone-class heavy cruisers. Together with Tone nee-san, I acted as the important eyes of the Nagumo task force.
190
Hatsukaze
初風です、よろしく。\n提督さんにとって私は何人目の私かしら？
陽炎型駆逐艦、初風よ。\nブーゲンビルで妙高姉さんとぶつかって、艦首をばっさり切断…　で、航行不能になったところを集中砲火くらって…\n怖い…怖すぎる妙高姉さん…
I'm Hatsukaze, nice to meet you. Admiral, how many of me did you have before me, I wonder?
Kagerou-class destroyer, Hatsukaze. Myoukou-neesan and I crashed into each other off Bougainville, and my bow got torn off... Crippled and unable to move, I was the target of concentrated fire and then... I'm scared....I'm so scared, Myoukou-neesan...
191
I-19
素敵な提督で嬉しいのね。\n伊十九なの。そう、イクって呼んでもいいの！
潜水艦、伊一九よ。うん、イク。正規空母ワスプを自慢の酸素魚雷で仕留めたの。さらにずーっと先を航行していた戦艦や駆逐艦にも命中したの。海のスナイパー、イクさんの活躍、ずーっと覚えていてなの…ね。
Such a great admiral makes me happy. I'm I-19. Yep, calling me 'Iku' is fine!
I'm the submarine I-19. Yes, Iku! I sunk the carrier Wasp with my pride and joy, my oxygen torpedoes! I was even able to hit a battleship and destroyer that was waaaay ahead of the carrier! Don't you forget Iku, Sniper of the Ocean's great abilities... 'kay?
192
Nachi Kai Ni
貴様が司令官か。\n私は那智。よろしくお願いする。
生れは呉海軍工廠。妙高型重巡２番艦の私は、上海事変にも警備出動したぞ。\n太平洋戦線では第五艦隊の旗艦として、暴れまわったさ。\n敵艦載機？　ああ、あれは少し苦手だな。
You're.. still on combat duty? Alright, this Nachi will again, go on the battlefields with you!
Born at the Kure Naval Yards. I am the second of the Myoukou Heavy Cruisers, who was the guardian of Shanghai. I was rushed out to the Pacific front as a flagship of the fifth fleet. Carrier-based planes? Ah, I'm a bit bad with those.
193
Ashigara Kai Ni
足柄よ。砲雷撃戦が得意なの。\nふふ、よろしくね。
私、足柄が英国の観艦式に参加した時のことよ。\nまるで「飢えた狼のよう」と評価されたの。\n当然よね！この精悍なボディ！\nえ？それは色気がないって嫌味じゃないかって？\nそんなことあるわけ…ナイじゃない！
I'm heavy cruiser, Ashigara. If it's surface combat, leave it to me! Let's achieve victory together!
I am the Ashigara that participated in the English fleet review, you know. I was acknowledged as the 'Hungry Wolf'. But of course! With this fearless body! Eh? That's got nothing to do with my sex appeal? And wasn't even a praise? There's... no way that's right!
194
Haguro Kai Ni
妙高型重巡洋艦、羽黒です。\n皆さんと共に、全力で戦線を支えます！
長崎で生まれたの。\nスラバヤ沖海戦、珊瑚海海戦、ミッドウェー海戦、第二次ソロモン海戦、マリアナ海戦など数々の海戦に参加しました。\nあの…頑張ります！
Fourth ship of the Myoukou-class heavy cruisers, Haguro. Together with everyone, I will support the front lines!
I was born in Nagasaki. I participated in many battles, in the Battle of the Java Sea, the Battle of the Coral Sea, the Battle of Midway, the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, and the Battle of the Philippine Sea. Um... I try my best!
195
Ayanami Kai Ni
ごきげんよう。\n特型駆逐艦、綾波と申します。
特型駆逐艦、綾波です。\n改良吹雪型の１番艦なんです。\n第三次ソロモン海海戦では、駆逐艦一隻としては、特別な大活躍をお見せしました。頑張ります！
Nice to meet you. I'm Ayanami, a special class destroyer.
Special class destroyer, Ayanami. I'm the first ship of the improved Fubuki class. In the Third Battle of the Solomon Sea, I showed an outstanding performance as a destroyer. I'll do my best!
196
Hiryuu Kai Ni
航空母艦、飛龍です。\n空母戦ならお任せ！どんな苦境でも戦えます！
飛龍型航空母艦、飛龍です。…ん？蒼龍型改じゃないかって？いいじゃん、そんなこと。\nそれより、索敵は大切にねッ。空母戦は先手必勝！\n慢心はダメ、ゼッタイ。慎重に、そして、大胆に戦い抜こうよ！
Aircraft carrier Hiryuu here. Leave the carrier battles to me. I'll show you I can counter any and all adversity!
197
Souryuu Kai Ni
航空母艦、蒼龍です。\n空母機動部隊を編制するなら、私もぜひ入れてね！
航空母艦、蒼龍です。\n真珠湾攻撃から始まって、緒戦の重要な戦いに、主力空母の一隻として参加しました。\nえ？なに、ミッドウェー？なにそれ、美味しいの？
200
Abukuma Kai Ni
こ、こんにちは、軽巡、阿武隈です。
長良型軽巡洋艦の阿武隈です。\nはい…正直いって、北上さんは苦手です。なに、あの人…でも、艦首もきれいに直して頑張りました！\n潮ちゃんも…ありがとね…。
My turn to shine? That's gotta be it! Abukuma, sortieing!
I'm Abukuma of Nagara-class light cruisers. Yes... to be honest, I don't like Kitakami. What's with her... but, I endured and fixed my beautiful bow! Ushio too, thanks.
201
Fubuki Kai
はじめまして吹雪です。\nよろしくお願い致します。
ワシントン条約制限下で設計された、世界中を驚愕させたクラスを超えた特型駆逐艦の１番艦、吹雪です。\n私たちは、後の艦隊型駆逐艦のベースとなりました。\nはいっ、頑張ります！
Fubuki here! Thanks for having me today!
202
Shirayuki Kai
白雪です。\nよろしくお願いします。
特型駆逐艦、２番艦、白雪です。\n緒戦の数々の作戦に参加しました。その後、増援の部隊を輸送する第八十一号作戦に護衛隊旗艦として参加致しました。
I'm Shirayuki. I'll be in your care today as well.
Special-type destroyer, second ship, Shirayuki. At the start of the war, I participated in many operations. After that, I was the flagship of the escort in Operation 81 that transported troop reinforcements.
203
Hatsuyuki Kai
初雪……です……よろしく。
特型駆逐艦…３番艦…初雪…です。\n緒戦の作戦に…いっぱい参加しました…。\n輸送任務とかも…ん…がんばる……。
I'm... Hatsuyuki. What? I'll do... starting tomorrow.
Special-type destroyer... third ship... Hatsuyuki. At the start of the war... I participated a lot. Transport duties... yes... I'll work hard...
204
Miyuki Kai
深雪だよ。\nよろしくな！
特型駆逐艦、４番艦の深雪さまだよ！\n演習中に他の駆逐艦とぶつかって事故っちゃったこともあるんだ。\nまー、でもやるときゃやるぜ。みてなって！
It's the great Miyuki! Nice to meet you again, Commander!
Fourth of the special-type destroyers, Miyuki-sama! During practice, I hit another destroyer and made a bit of scene. Eh, but I gotta do what I gotta do. Watch and see!
205
Murakumo Kai
あんたが司令官ね。\nま、せいぜい頑張りなさい！
特型駆逐艦、５番艦の叢雲よ。\nえ、知らないって？　全く、ありえないわね。\n南方作戦や、古鷹の救援、数々の作戦に参加した名艦の私を知らないって、あんた、もぐりでしょ！
206
Isonami Kai
あ、あの…磯波と申します。\nよろしくお願いいたします。
特型駆逐艦９番艦の磯波です。\n数々の作戦に参加したんですけど、中破してからは後方で海上護衛や哨戒活動に従事していました。\n頑張ります。
U-um... my name is Isonami. Pleased to meet you.
Ninth ship of the special-type destroyers, Isonami. Though I participated in many different battles, after getting damaged, I ended up in the marine guard and rear patrol. I'll do my best!
207
Ayanami Kai
ごきげんよう。\n特型駆逐艦、綾波と申します。
特型駆逐艦、綾波です。\n改良吹雪型の１番艦なんです。\n第三次ソロモン海海戦では、駆逐艦一隻としては、特別な大活躍をお見せしました。頑張ります！
Nice to meet you. I'm Ayanami, a special class destroyer.
Special class destroyer, Ayanami. I'm the first ship of the improved Fubuki class. In the Third Battle of the Solomon Sea, I showed an outstanding performance as a destroyer. I'll do my best!
208
Shikinami Kai
アタシの名は敷波。\n以後よろしく。
特Ⅱ型駆逐艦２番艦の敷波。よろしく。\nミッドウェーやソロモンの海戦に参加した後、船団護衛を務めたよ。\n海上護衛戦は結構大変だよ…大事だし…。
I'm Shikinami. I'll be in your care.
Special Destroyer number II, Shikinami. Nice to meet you. After participating in Midway and the Battle of Solomon, I serve as a convoy escort. Being a convoy escort is really rough you know... Because it's important...
209
Kongou Kai
英国で生まれた帰国子女の金剛デース。\nヨロシクオネガイシマース！
超弩級戦艦として建造技術導入を兼ねて英国ヴィッカース社で建造された、金剛デース！\n太平洋戦域でも持前の高速力を活かして大活躍デース！期待してネ！
210
Hiei Kai
金剛お姉さまの妹分、比叡です。\n経験を積んで、姉さまに少しでも近づきたいです。
井上提督も愛した巡洋戦艦、比叡です。\nぴかぴかに肌を磨いて、御召艦としても活躍したの。\n大和型のテスト艦にもなったのよ、知ってた？\nえ？　ソロモン海戦？　そうよ、奮闘したわ！
I'm Hiei, Kongou Onee-sama's sister. I'm looking forward to gaining experience and getting closer to my sister's brilliance.
The battlecruiser that Admiral Inoue loved, it's Hiei. Even though I'm a shiny Imperial ship, I'll work my hardest. I was even the test-ship for the Yamato class, didn't you know? Eh? The Battle of Guadalcanal? Yes, I fought hard.
211
Haruna Kai
高速戦艦、榛名、着任しました。\nあなたが提督なのね？　よろしくお願い致します。
高速の巡洋戦艦、榛名です。\n国産の四一式36センチ砲を装備しました。\n呉鎮守府の江田島で最後まで空を睨んで奮戦したわ。\n高速戦艦四姉妹で最期まで、戦い抜いた榛名のこと、覚えていてね。
212
Kirishima Kai
マイク音量大丈夫…？チェック、1，2……。\nよし。はじめまして、私、霧島です。
霧島です。姉妹艦の榛名には、頭脳は負けないわよ？\n純国産高速戦艦として、奮戦するんだからっ！\n現代の海自イージス艦にもその名は受け継がれたの。
Is the microphone's volume good? Check, 1,2... Okay. NIce to meet you, I'm Kirishima.
Kirishima here. I won't lose to my sister ship Haruna's brains! As a domestically-produced fast battleship, I'll work hard! One of the Aegis ships of the modern JMSDF succeeds my name.
213
Tenryuu Kai
オレの名は天龍。\nフフフ、怖いか？
天龍型１番艦、天龍だ。\n駆逐艦を束ねて、殴り込みの水雷戦隊を率いるぜ。\n相棒は、同型艦の龍田だ。\nあいつ、ちゃんとやってるかな？ま、いいけどな。
214
Tatsuta Kai
初めまして、龍田だよ。\n天龍ちゃんがご迷惑かけてないかなあ～。
軽巡洋艦、天龍型２番艦の龍田よ。\n生まれは佐世保なの。\n天龍ちゃんがみんなに迷惑かけてない？\n心配よね～。え？私？私は潜水艦が、ちょっと鬼門だわ～。
Nice to meet you, I'm Tatsuta~. I hope Tenryuu-chan hasn't been causing you trouble?
Light cruiser Tatsuta, second of Tenryuu class. I come from Sasebo. I hope Tenryuu-chan hasn't been causing everybody trouble? You really can't take your eyes off that girl, right? Huh? Me? Well, I'm not particularly fond of submarines~
215
Kuma Kai
クマー。\nよろしくだクマ。
球磨型軽巡洋艦の１番艦、球磨だクマ。\n佐世保生まれだクマ。ちょっと古いところもあるけど、頑張るクマー。
Kumaa. Nice to meet you, kuma.
First ship of the Kuma-class light cruisers, Kuma kuma. Born in Sasebo kuma. I got some old parts, but I'll try my best, kumaa.
216
Tama Kai
軽巡、多摩です。\n猫じゃないにゃ。
球磨型軽巡洋艦の２番艦、多摩だにゃ。\n水雷戦隊の旗艦として、ご奉公するにゃ！\nにゃ？多摩って名前だけど、猫じゃないもん！
Light cruiser, Tama. I'm not a cat, nya.
Second of the Kuma-class light cruisers, Tama nya. I did my duty as a torpedo squadron flagship, nya! Nya? Tama's my name, but I'm not a cat!
217
Kiso Kai
木曾だ、お前に最高の勝利を与えてやる。
5500トン型の軽巡洋艦、球磨型の木曾だ。\nよろしくな。\nやれ、滑走台だ、カタパルトだ、そんなもんはいらねえな。\n戦いは敵の懐に飛び込んでやるもんよ。なあ？
218
Nagara Kai
軽巡、長良です。\nよろしくお願いします！
5500トン級軽巡洋艦、長良型の１番艦、長良よ。\nちょっとモデルは古いけど、高速・魚雷発射主兵装・水雷戦隊指揮能力と、駆逐艦仕切るにはバッチリでしょ？ソロモン海での激闘でも奮戦したんだから！
Light Cruiser Nagara! Please take good care of me!
Weighing in as a 5500 ton light cruiser, first ship of the Nagara-class, Nagara! I'm a bit of an old model, but I'm a high-speed torpedo-armed team-leading machine, so I'm just perfect to command destroyers, you know? I even fought hard in the difficult Battle of the Solomons!
219
Isuzu Kai
五十鈴です。水雷戦隊の指揮ならお任せ。\n全力で提督を勝利に導くわ。よろしくね。
五十鈴は、大正時代に建造された長良型軽巡の２番艦。\n韋駄天さはもちろんだけど、私の歴代艦長の中からは、あの山本五十六提督、山口多聞提督など後の海軍を支える人物が多数輩出されたの。凄いでしょ？
I'm Isuzu. Leave the torpedo squadrons to me. I'll bring victory to the admiral with all my power. Pleased to meet you.
Isuzu was built in the Taisho period (1912-1926) as the second of the Nagara Class light cruisers. As you might expect my speed is top-rate; the admirals that commanded me in history include Admiral Yamamoto Isoroku, Admiral Yamaguchi Tamon, and many other pillars of the Navy. Amazing, huh?
220
Yura Kai
長良型軽巡四番艦の「由良」です。\nどうぞ、よろしくお願いいたしますっ！
長良型軽巡４番艦の由良です。\n私たちの中では、初めて水上偵察機を搭載したの。\n水雷戦隊や潜水戦隊の旗艦として、活躍したのよ？\nドーントレスとかB17とかそういうのはちょっと苦手。
Fourth ship of the Nagara-class Light Cruisers, 'Yura'. Pleased to make your acquaintance!
I'm Yura, the fourth ship of the Nagara-type Light Cruisers. I was the first out of all of us to be equipped with seaplanes. I've served as the flagship of torpedo and submarine squadrons. I'm not so good with Dauntless and B17 planes.
221
Natori Kai
名取といいます。\nご迷惑をおかけしないように、が、頑張ります。
長良型３番艦の名取です。\nちょっと古いモデルっていわれるけれど、高速軽巡洋艦として使い方はあるはず…\nそ、そう、水雷戦隊には、ぜひ配属してくださいね。\nが、頑張りますから！
I'm called Natori... I'll do my best not to trouble you!
Third ship of the Nagara-class, Natori. I'm a bit of an older model, but there is much use for a high-speed light cruiser too... Y-yes, a Destroyer squadron, it'd be best if I was assigned to one, please. I-I'll do my best!
222
Sendai Kai
川内、参上。\n夜戦なら任せておいて！
5500トン級の軽巡洋艦の最終タイプ、それが私、川内型よ。\n熟成された軽巡の魅力、たっぷり教えてあげるから。\nもちろん、夜戦でね！
Sendai has arrived. Please leave the night battle to me.
I am the culmination of the 5500-ton light cruisers, the Sendai-class. I'll fully teach you the appeal of a mature light cruiser. Of course, it'll be with a night battle!
223
Jintsuu Kai
あの……軽巡洋艦、神通です。\nどうか、よろしくお願い致します……
神通です。近代化改装を受け、\n第２水雷戦隊の旗艦を務めました。\nコロンバンガラ島沖海戦では先頭に立って奮戦します。でも、みんな私の事狙うんですもの…ひどいわ……。
224
Naka Kai
艦隊のアイドル、那珂（なか）ちゃんだよー！\nよっろしくぅ！
第４水雷戦隊のセンターも務めた那珂だよ！\nお仕事沢山入ってて、輸送船の護衛任務や、トラック島から南方への輸送任務とか…\n…え、地方巡業じゃんって？ そんなことないしっ！
The fleet's idol, Naka-chan!Nice to meet you!
Selected as the Centre of DesRon 4, it's Naka-chan! Doing lots of work, from guarding transports to doing the Tokyo Express from Truk... Eh? Was it a Provincial tour, you ask? That is SO not what I was doing!
225
Kagerou Kai
やっと会えた！　陽炎よ。\nよろしくねっ！
第四次軍備充実計画で建造された陽炎型駆逐艦、ネームシップの陽炎よ。\n新鋭の主力駆逐艦として、ハワイ攻撃機動部隊を始め、様々な作戦に参加したわ！\nよろしくね！
We've finally met! I'm Kagerou. Treat me well!
Constucted for the Circle-4 programe, Kagerou-class nameship, Kagerou. As the main power of the newly-made ships, staring off with the Hawaii attack force, I was in lots of varied battles! Treat me well!
226
Shiranui Kai
不知火です。\nご指導ご鞭撻、よろしくです。
陽炎型駆逐艦２番艦、不知火です。\n陽炎らと共にハワイ作戦部隊の護衛も務めました。\n運命のレイテ沖海戦では志摩艦隊に所属、スリガオ海峡に突入しました。
I'm Shiranui. I look forward to your guidance and encouragement.
Second Kagerou-class destroyer, Shiranui. Along with the other Kageros I served as the escort for the Hawaii Operational Forces. In the fated Battle of Leyte Gulf, I was attached to Shima's fleet and rushed to the Surigao Strait.
227
Kuroshio Kai
黒潮や、よろしゅうな。
大阪の民間造船所で建造された、陽炎型駆逐艦の３番艦、黒潮や。\nこう見えても、スラバヤ沖海戦、南太平洋海戦、第三次ソロモン海戦などの激戦に参加したんやで。
I'm Kuroshio, nice to meet 'cha!
Built in the Osaka Civilian Naval Yards, third of the Kagerou-class Destroyers, Kuroshio. Even though I look like this, I participated in such hard-fought battles as Surabaya, the South Pacific and the third Battle of Solomon, ya' know.
228
Yukikaze Kai
陽炎型駆逐艦８番艦、雪風です。\nどうぞ、よろしくお願いしますっ！
陽炎型駆逐艦８番艦の雪風です。\n私たち主力艦隊型駆逐艦の中で、十数回以上の主要海戦に参加しながらも、唯一ほとんど無傷で終戦まで生き残りました。\n奇跡の駆逐艦って？ううん、奇跡じゃないですっ！
The eighth ship of Kagerou-class destroyer, I'm Yukikaze. I'll be in your care!
I'm Yukikaze, eighth ship of the Kagerou-class destroyer. Among the destroyers of the main fleet, while taking part in over 10 major naval battles, I'm the only one to have survived the war with barely any damage. Miracle destroyer? Nope, it was no miracle!
229
Shimakaze Kai
駆逐艦島風です。スピードなら誰にも負けません。\n速きこと、島風の如し、です！
艦隊型駆逐艦の最高峰を目指して開発された、高速で重雷装の駆逐艦、島風型よ。\n40ノット以上の快速なんだから。\nでも、量産には向かなくって、私一隻しか建造されなかったの。
230
Oboro Kai
アタシ、綾波型駆逐艦「朧」。\n誰にも負けない…たぶん……
綾波型駆逐艦７番艦の朧です。\n佐世保の海軍工廠生まれです。南方進攻作戦などに参加しました。熱いところの海の方がいいな。\nキス…か？　じゃなくって、寒いキスカ島は…あまり近づきたくない…かな。
I'm the Ayanami-class destroyer Oboro. I won't lose to anyone. Probably.
Seventh ship of the Ayanami-class, Oboro. Laid down in the Sasebo Naval Arsenal. I participated in the Southern operations. Hot places are better, aren't they? Kiss...? No, not that, the cold Kiska Island... I don't want to get close to that... I hope.
231
Akebono Kai
特型駆逐艦「曙」よ。\nって、こっち見んな！　この糞提督！
特型駆逐艦１８番艦、綾波型の８番艦、曙よ。\nお相撲さんではないわ。覚えておいて。\n初の空母戦、珊瑚海海戦にも参加したわ！\nけど、何気に潜水艦は苦手かな…。
Special-type destroyer, 'Akebono'. Hey! Don't look at me, you shitty Admiral!
Special-type destroyer number 18, eighth of the Ayanami-class, Akebono. I'm not a sumo wrestler. Remember that. I participated in the first naval air battle, the Coral Sea! But, I'm a bit uneasy around subs...
232
Sazanami Kai
綾波型駆逐艦「漣」です、ご主人さま。\nこう書いてさざなみと読みます。
特型駆逐艦の１９番目、綾波型でいうと、９番艦の漣だよ。\n読みにくいって？貴方が字を知らないだけヨ。\n南雲機動部隊が真珠湾でボコボコやってる時、ミッドウェー島砲撃を敢行したよ。何気に凄くない？
Ayanami-class Destroyer 'Sazanami', Master. You write it like this, but read it as 'Sazanami'
Special-type destroyer number 19, ninth of the Ayanami-class, Sazanami. It's hard to read? Only you don't know that character, you know. I was with the Nagumo Task Force when Pearl Harbour was burbling, and headed off to bombard Midway. Wasn't that unexpectedly cool?
233
Ushio Kai
特型駆逐艦…綾波型の「潮」です。\nもう下がってよろしいでしょうか…。
綾波型１０番艦の潮です。\nレイテ沖海戦などの激戦を潜り抜け、運命のあの日、横須賀で御役目を終えるまで戦い抜きました。\nあ、あの…沈めた敵艦の皆さんも…ホントはお助けしたいのです。ホントです！
234
Akatsuki Kai
暁よ。\n一人前のレディーとして扱ってよね！
特Ⅲ型駆逐艦１番艦の暁よ。\n吹雪型をベースに航行性能や航続距離を向上させたの。特型駆逐艦の最終完成形なんだから！\nちゃんとレディーとして活躍したのよ！\nほ、ほんとなんだからっ。
235
Hibiki Kai
響だよ。\nその活躍ぶりから不死鳥の通り名もあるよ。
数ある特型駆逐艦の中で最後まで生き残ったのが、響。転戦の後、あの大和水上特攻時には修理で同行できなかったんだ。\n賠償艦としてソ連に引き渡され「信頼できる」という意味の艦名になったんだ。
236
Ikazuchi Kai
雷よ！　かみなりじゃないわ！\nそこのとこもよろしく頼むわねっ！
スラバヤ沖海戦では駆逐艦電と一緒に協力して、沈没した敵艦隊の生存者の救助に当たったのよ。\nただ強いだけじゃ、だめだと思うの。\nね、司令官！
237
Inazuma Kai
電です。\nどうか、よろしくお願いいたします。
スラバヤ沖海戦で、撃沈した敵艦の乗員の救助に努めた後、キスカ、ソロモン、ニューギニア、アッツ島など、各戦域を転戦しました…\n頑張ったの…です…。
238
Hatsuharu Kai
わらわが初春じゃ。\nよろしく頼みますぞ。
初春型駆逐艦、１番艦の初春じゃ。\nわらわは、北方部隊に所属。戦雲渦巻くアッツやキスカなどの北方海域で活躍したぞ。北海道周辺も好きな海域じゃな。マニラ湾やオルモック…？ああ、熱いところは苦手じゃ。
We are Hatsuharu. We thank you in advance.
We are the first Hatsuharu-class destroyer, Hatsuharu. We were attached to the Northern Force. As the clouds of war gathers, we did our duty in the Northern seas at such places as Attu and Kiska. The seas around Hokkaido are our favourite, no? The Gulf of Manila and Ormoc... ah, we are weak to the heat.
239
Nenohi Kai
初めまして、ねのひ、だよぉ！\n艦名、読みづらくなんか、ないよね？ね？
丸一計画で建造された初春型駆逐艦２番艦の子日だよ。初春などの姉妹艦で第２１駆逐隊を編成して色々と頑張ったんだよ。\nなに？潜水艦…？嫌いキライ！
Ye~s! It's Nenohi. Have you memorized my name? hey? Hey~!
I'm Nenohi, second ship of the Hatsuharu class built under the Maru-1 program. I'm working hard to organize many things for my 21st Destroyer Corps sister ships, such as Hatsuharu sister ships. What? Submarines ...? I REALLY hate them!
240
Wakaba Kai
駆逐艦、若葉だ。
初春型駆逐艦３番艦、若葉だ。\nアッツ島沖海戦やキスカ島撤退作戦などに参加した。\nそうだ、北方海域だ。\nああ、濃霧には注意が必要だ。ぶつかりやすい。\n特に「初霜」、お前は要注意だ。
Destroyer, Wakaba.
Third of the Hatsuharu-class, Wakaba. I participated in the Attu and Kiska Island exit operations. Yes, the Northern forces. Ah, be careful of heavy fog. It's easy to get hit. Especially 'Hatsushimo', you need to watch out for her.
241
Hatsushimo Kai
初春型四番艦、初霜です。\n皆さん、よろしくお願いします！
初春型駆逐艦の４番艦、初霜です。\nアリューシャン作戦、アッツ島沖海戦、キスカ島撤退作戦、マリアナ沖海戦、北号作戦、坊ノ岬沖海戦など\n様々な激戦に参加しました！\nほんと、頑張ったんです！
Fourth ship of the Hatsuharu class, Hatsushimo. Everyone, I'm very pleased to meet you!
Fourth of the Hatsuharu-class destroyers, Hatsushimo. I was in lots of hard battles like the Operation AL, the Battle of the Komandorski Islands, the occupation of Kiska, the Battle of the Philippine Sea, Operation Hoku-Go and Ten-Ichi-Gō! I really did my best!
242
Shiratsuyu Kai
白露型駆逐艦一番艦、「白露」です！\nはい、一番艦ですっ！
初春型駆逐艦の次に開発された白露型の１番艦、白露だよ！　そう、１番艦だよ、１番艦。\n色々と改良された艦隊型駆逐艦なんだから！\nえ？慌ててタンカーと衝突しないようにって？大丈夫！
First ship of the Shiratsuyu-class destroyers, 'Shiratsuyu'!. Yes, the first ship!
Developed after the Hatsuharu-class destroyer, Shiratsuyu-class, number one, I'm Shiratsuyu! Yeah, number one, the first ship! With lots of upgrades, I'm a true fleet destroyer, you know! Eh? 'Don't be in such a rush that you'll hit a tanker'? Don't worry about it!
243
Shigure Kai
僕は白露型駆逐艦、「時雨」。\nこれからよろしくね。
僕は白露型駆逐艦２番艦の時雨だよ。\nあのレイテ沖海戦では、西村艦隊に所属して、運命のスリガオ海峡に突入したんだ。\n扶桑も山城も凄かったよ……。皆が忘れても、僕だけはずっと覚えているから……。
244
Murasame Kai
はいはーい！白露型駆逐艦「村雨」だよ。\nみんな、よろしくね！
白露型駆逐艦３番艦、村雨よ。\n雨の名前の駆逐艦群なんてお洒落よね？\n姉妹艦の夕立たちと一緒に第2駆逐隊を編成したの。鼠輸送ですって？　失礼ちゃう、ガダルカナル島輸送作戦でも活躍したわ！
Yes ye~s! I'm the Shiratsuyu-class destroyer 'Murasame'! Everyone, nice to meet you!
Third of the Shiratsuyu-class destroyers, Murasame! Aren't all the Rainy destroyers stylish? With my sister ship Yuudachi, we formed the 2nd DesDiv. 'Rat Transport?' Well, excuse me, I did great at the Guadalcanal transport runs, you know!
245
Yuudachi Kai
こんにちは、白露型駆逐艦「夕立」よ。\nよろしくね！
白露型駆逐艦の４番艦、夕立です。\n第三次ソロモン海戦では、けっこう頑張ったっぽい？\nでも、何気に「アイアンボトム・サウンド」って、ホントに怖い言葉よね？
246
Samidare Kai
五月雨っていいます！よろしくお願いします。\n護衛任務はお任せください！
五月雨です。\n村雨・夕立・春雨とは第2駆逐隊でお友達でした。\nそうそう、輸送任務中に白露と衝突してしまったことも…ホント、私ってば、ドジでごめんなさい。\nでも、頑張ります！
My name is Samidare! I look forward to working with you. Please leave any escort missions to me!
I'm Samidare. My friends Murasame, Yuudachi and Harusame, we made up DesDiv2. Oh yeah, during a transport mission, I crashed into Shiratsuyu... Really, I'm... sorry for being clumsy... But, I'll do my best!
247
Suzukaze Kai
ちわ！涼風だよ。\n私が艦隊に加われば百人力さ！
涼風だよ。\n特型駆逐艦として、数々の攻略作戦の支援に参加したんだ。\nその後は戦艦や空母の護衛にも従事したよ。\n頼りにしてね！最後まで戦うから！
'ello! I'm Suzukaze. If I join the fleet it will be equivalent to 100 ships!
I'm Suzukaze. As a Special-class destroyer, I participated in lots of capture mission. After that, I escorted battleships and carriers! You can rely on me! I'll fight until the last!
248
Asashio Kai
駆逐艦、朝潮です。\n勝負ならいつでも受けて立つ覚悟です。
朝潮型駆逐艦のネームシップ、朝潮よ。\nバランスのとれた量産型駆逐艦として建造され、戦線を支えたの。\n私の進化改良型が陽炎型になるわね。
249
Ooshio Kai
駆逐艦、大潮です～！\n小さな体に大きな魚雷！　お任せください。
朝潮型駆逐艦の２番艦、大潮です！\n各戦線で活躍した後、あのガダルカナル島撤収作戦にも3回出動しました。\n支えてみせます！
250
Michishio Kai
満潮よ。\n私、なんでこんな部隊に配属されたのかしら。
駆逐艦、満潮よ。\n姉妹艦の朝潮、大潮、荒潮とは、第８駆逐隊で腐れ縁の仲。でも、最後は離れ離れ。\n私は西村艦隊の一員として、レイテに突入を図ったわ。
Michishio here. Why did I get assigned to such a fleet?
I'm a destroyer, Michishio. I and my sisters Asashio, Ooshio, and Arashio were somehow assigned to the eighth destroyer squadron. But, we were separated in the end. Finally I broke into Leyte, as a member of Nishimura fleet.
251
Arashio Kai
あら。自己紹介まだでしたかー。\n私、荒潮です。
神戸娘の駆逐艦よ？　そう、名前は荒潮。\n姉妹達とけっこう色々頑張ったのよ。\nでも、私の煙突に爆弾落とすのだけは、ちょっとやめてほしいわ。
Oh, I haven't introduced myself yet, have I? My name is Arashio.
I'm the Kobe girl destroyer. Yes, I'm Arashio. My sisters and I worked hard in a lot of places. The only thing is, I really do dislike having my smokestack destroyed by bombers.
252
Arare Kai
霰です…\nんちゃ…とかはいいません…よろしく…
霰は、マル２計画で建造された最後の駆逐艦…。\n朝潮型シリーズの…最終艦でも…あるの…。\nこの後は…陽炎型だから…
Arare... I won't say 'ncha-'... Look after me...
Arare, last destroyer constructed under the Maru-2 programme... Asashio-class series'... final ship but... there's more... After that.... Kagero-class...
253
Kasumi Kai
霞よ。\nガンガンいくわよ。ついてらっしゃい。
歴戦の主力駆逐艦として奮戦したわ。\n最後は戦艦大和と共に坊ノ岬沖海戦で米艦載機の猛攻と戦ったの。\n負けないわ！
I'm Kasumi, charging forth. Follow me.
I fought intensely as a main fleet destroyer in history. In the end, I fought alongside battleship Yamato in Operation Ten-go against the fierce attacks of American carrier-based aircraft. I won't lose!
254
Mutsuki Kai
睦月です。\nはりきって、まいりましょー！
帝国海軍の駆逐艦で初めて大型で強力な61cm魚雷を搭載しました、睦月です！\n旧式ながら、第一線で頑張ったのです！
255
Kisaragi Kai
如月と申します。\nおそばに置いてくださいね。
睦月型駆逐艦２番艦の如月と申します。\nウェーク島では五月蠅いF4F戦闘機の攻撃を受けながら奮戦しました。\nいやん、ほんと、髪の毛が潮風で痛んじゃう……。
256
Satsuki Kai
皐月だよっ。\nよろしくな！
ボクは任務途中に何度も何度も怪我をしたけど、最後まで奮戦した睦月型駆逐艦５番艦さ。\n緒戦の後も、船団護衛などで各海域で頑張ったんだ。\nホントだよ。
I'm Satsuki. Good to meet ya!
I kept getting injured again and again on missions, but I fought bravely to the end as the fifth of the Mutsuki-class destroyers. After the war began, I did my best to escort the fleet and guard areas of the ocean. I really did!
257
Fumizuki Kai
あたし、文月っていうの。\nよろしくぅ～。
睦月型駆逐艦７番艦の文月だよ。\n数々の海戦に参加したんだ。\n船団護衛中に大型船と衝突して大破…したこともあったっけ。あれはやばかったなー。
I'm Fumizuki. Nice to meet you~
I'm Fumizuki, the seventh ship of the Mutsuki-class Destroyers. I've been in many open-sea battles. I was once on a fleet escort mission when I collided with a large ship and... got really hurt. It was such a mess!
258
Nagatsuki Kai
長月だ。\n駆逐艦と侮るなよ。役に立つはずだ。
睦月型８番艦だ。\n東南アジア方面の攻略作戦後は、船団護衛を任されていた。コロンバンガラ島への揚陸作戦では敵艦の襲撃を受けながら奮戦したよ。
Nagatsuki here. Don't make light of me as destroyers. I'm useful.
Eighth ship of the Mutsuki-class. After the occupation of Southeast Asia, I was assigned to escort duties. While unloading at Kolombangara, I had to fend off a surprise attack by the enemy fleet.
259
Kikuzuki Kai
私が菊月だ、共にゆこう。
睦月型駆逐艦の９番艦、菊月だ。\n緒戦は数々の攻略作戦に参加。\nそして、船団護衛に従事したんだ。\nいや、護衛任務も大切なミッションだ……。
I'm Kikuzuki, let's move out together
I'm Kikuzuki, ninth of Mutsuki-class Destroyers. In the very early part of the war, I participated in lots of capture operations. And in the latter part, I engaged in fleet-guard. It may not look so, but fleet-guard is an important mission for certain.
260
Mikazuki Kai
あなたが司令官ですね。三日月です。\nどうぞお手柔らかにお願いします。
軽空母のエスコートや船団護衛に従事した睦月型駆逐艦三日月です。\n激戦のソロモン海域にも出撃しました。旧式だけど速力を生かして強行輸送任務も奮闘しました。
You're the commander, right? I'm Mikazuki. I hope you welcome me warmly into your fleet.
I am Mikazuki, the Mutsuki class destroyer that participated in escorting light carriers and other fleets. I even sortied to that fierce battle of Solomon Islands. Although I'm an old model, utilizing my fast speed I even participated in some transport missions.
261
Mochizuki Kai
ん？あぁ、望月でーす。
睦月型駆逐艦望月でーす。\n第30駆逐隊に所属して各攻略作戦に参加したよ。\n何度も修理を繰り返しながら輸送任務に従事したぞ。\n結構頑張ったっしょ？
Hmm? Ah, I'm Mochizuki.
Mutsuki-class destroyer Mochizuki. I took part in several invasions as a member of the 30th Destroyer Squadron. I engaged in transport missions again and again while going through repeated repairs. Worked hard, didn't I?
262
Furutaka Kai
古鷹と言います。重巡洋艦のいいところ、\nたくさん知ってもらえると嬉しいです。
重巡洋艦、古鷹です。\n三川提督率いる第８艦隊の一員として、第一次ソロモン海戦では敵艦多数を撃破したんですよ！\nこれが、重巡なんです！
I'm Furutaka. I'll be happy to show how all the good points of heavy cruisers.
Heavy cruiser, Furutaka. Selected by Vice Admiral Mikawa to be a member of the eighth fleet, I took out a lot of enemies at the first Battle of Solomon! This is what a heavy cruiser can do!
263
Kako Kai
古鷹型重巡の2番艦、加古ってんだ、よっろしくぅー！
古鷹型重巡洋艦の２番艦、加古だよぉ。\n第一次ソロモン海戦で大活躍したんだからね！\nあ、帰り道？ホント、行きはよいよい、帰りは怖い～ってね！
Second Furutaka Class Heavy Cruiser, name's Kako! Nice to meetcha!
I'm the Second Furutaka Class Heavy Cruiser, Kako. I achieved quite a feat during the Battle of Savo Islands! Ah, the way back? Well, the verse "Going in is easy, but returning is scary" was no joke!
264
Aoba Kai
ども、恐縮です、青葉ですぅ！\n一言お願いします！
青葉です。トラック諸島方面へ進出して、\n中部太平洋作戦を支えました。\n従軍作家さんも乗り込んで青葉のスタッフの仕事振りを取材したことも。最期の時は、呉の港で。\n動かす油もなかったけど、青葉、頑張りました！
Hi, thanks for your time, I'm Aoba! Please can I have some words!
I'm Aoba. Advancing into the Truk Islands area, I supported the Pacific Front. With a war correspondent on board, the staff also had reporting as part of their job. At my last moment, I was at Kure. Even without fuel, I did my best!
265
Myoukou Kai
私、妙高型重巡洋艦、妙高と申します。\n共に頑張りましょう。
ワシントン海軍軍縮条約下で建造された重巡洋艦です。平賀譲氏設計による日本海軍の第一級の戦闘艦です。\n現代の海上自衛隊のイージス艦にも、その名は受け継がれています。
I am Myoukou, of the Myoukou-class Heavy Cruisers. Let us work on this together.
A heavy cruiser built under the auspices of the Washington Naval Treaty. I'm a first-class warship of the Japanese Navy designed by Yuzuru Hiraga. This name has also been passed on to Aegis destroyers of the modern MSDF.
266
Nachi Kai
貴様が司令官か。\n私は那智。よろしくお願いする。
生れは呉海軍工廠。妙高型重巡２番艦の私は、上海事変にも警備出動したぞ。\n太平洋戦線では第五艦隊の旗艦として暴れまわったさ。敵艦載機？　ああ、あれは少し苦手だな。
You are my commander? I'm Nachi. I appreciate your contribution.
Born at the Kure Naval Yards. I am the second of the Myoukou Heavy Cruisers, who was the guardian of Shanghai. I was rushed out to the Pacific front as a flagship of the fifth fleet. Carrier-based planes? Ah, I'm a bit bad with those.
267
Ashigara Kai
足柄よ。砲雷撃戦が得意なの。\nふふ、よろしくね。
私、足柄が英国の観艦式に参加した時のことよ。\nまるで「飢えた狼のよう」と評価されたの。\n当然よね！この精悍なボディ！\nえ？それは色気がないって嫌味じゃないかって？\nそんなことあるわけ…ナイじゃない！
I'm Ashigara. My specialty is surface combat. Nice to meet you.
I am the Ashigara that participated in the English fleet review, you know. I was acknowledged as the 'Hungry Wolf'. But of course! With this fearless body! Eh? That's got nothing to do with my sex appeal? And wasn't even a praise? There's... no way that's right!
268
Haguro Kai
羽黒です。妙高型重巡洋艦姉妹の末っ娘です。\nあ、あの…ごめんなさいっ！
長崎で生まれたの。\nスラバヤ沖海戦、珊瑚海海戦、ミッドウェー海戦、第二次ソロモン海戦、マリアナ海戦など数々の海戦に参加しました。\nあの…頑張ります！
I'm Haguro. I'm the youngest of the Myoukou-class heavy cruiser sisters. U-um... I'm sorry!
I was born in Nagasaki. I participated in many battles, in the Battle of the Java Sea, the Battle of the Coral Sea, the Battle of Midway, the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, and the Battle of the Philippine Sea. Um... I try my best!
269
Takao Kai
こんにちは。高雄です。\n貴方のような素敵な提督で良かったわ。
巡洋艦といえば、なんといっても、私、高雄型よね。\n近藤中将麾下の第４戦隊に所属して、数々の海戦に参加しました。\n激戦を戦い抜いて最期はシンガポール防衛に努めたの。
Good morning. I'm Takao. It's great that you look like an excellent Admiral.
If you're talking about cruisers, no matter how you look at it, it has to be me, Takao! Attached to Vice Admiral Kondo's fourth fleet, I participated in many naval battles. Overcoming these hard-fought conflicts, I concluded with a diligent defence of Singapore.
270
Atago Kai
私は愛宕、提督、覚えてくださいね。
高雄型の２番艦、愛宕よ、うふふ。\n呉海軍工廠で生まれたの。\nバランスがとれた重武装ボディでしょ？\nレイテ沖の決戦では、第一遊撃部隊の旗艦として出撃したんだけど……ま、そんなこともあるわよね。
271
Maya Kai
よ！アタシ、摩耶ってんだ、よろしくな。
高雄型重巡洋艦３番艦の摩耶さまだ。\n生まれは神戸。南方作戦や激戦のソロモン海で暴れまくってやったぜ！\nああん？　レイテ？\nんだよ、潜水艦って奴は苦手だよ。
Yo, Admiral! Working hard? Cause today is another day for me to kick some ass!
Third of the Takao-class heavy cruisers, Maya-sama! Kobe-built. I went hard in the Southern Ops and Solomon battles! Haah? Leyte? Nah, I'm not great with subs.
272
Choukai Kai
私が鳥海です。よろしくです。
高雄型の４番艦、鳥海です。\nマレー、ソロモン、マリアナ、レイテと数々の作戦に参加しました。\n鳥海の名は、現在、海自のイージス護衛艦、その4番艦に受け継がれています。
I am Choukai. My best regards.
Fourth of the Takao-class ships, Choukai. Deployed to Malaya, Solomon, Marianas and Leyte Gulf for many operations. My name is now given to a JSDF AEGIS-equipped escort vessel, fourth in its class.
273
Tone Kai
吾輩が利根である！\n吾輩が艦隊に加わる以上、もう、索敵の心配はないぞ！
日本海軍が完成させた最後の重巡、\n利根型の長女、利根だ。\n真珠湾、そして痛恨のミッドウェーでも、艦隊の眼として縦横無尽の活躍なのじゃ。最期は呉鎮守府を守る浮き砲台として刀折れ矢尽きるまで戦ったぞ。
I am Tone! With my addition to the fleet, there will be no problems searching out the enemy!
The last completed heavy cruiser of the Japanese Navy, oldest sister of the Tone-class, Tone. At Pearl Harbor and Midway, as the eye for the fleet, I unceasingly watched the length and breadth of the ocean. I ended out the war protecting the Kure Naval Yards as a floating fortress, fighting until my blades were broken, arrows were depleted.
274
Chikuma Kai
はじめまして、利根型２番艦、筑摩と申します。
筑摩です。\n連装主砲4基を前甲板に集中させ、充実した索敵水偵を搭載した利根型重巡洋艦２番艦です。\n生まれは長崎よ。利根姉さんと一緒に、あの南雲機動部隊の、大切な眼の役目を務めたの。
Pleased to meet you. Second of the Tone-class, Chikuma.
I'm Chikuma. Carrying 4 twin cannons on the foredeck, and with substantial reconnaissance capability, I am the second of the Tone-class heavy cruisers. Together with Tone nee-san, I acted as the important eyes of the Nagumo task force.
275
Nagato Kai
私が、戦艦長門だ。よろしく頼むぞ。\n敵戦艦との殴り合いなら任せておけ。
八八艦隊計画の第一号艦として生まれた、長門型戦艦のネームシップ、長門だ。\n大和型が就役するまで、連合艦隊旗艦も務めていたさ。世界のビッグ７と云われてもいたな。
I, Nagato, am not about to lose to some newcomers.
276
Mutsu Kai
長門型戦艦２番艦の陸奥よ。よろしくね。\nあまり火遊びはしないでね…お願いよ。
長門型戦艦の２番艦として生まれた陸奥よ。\nもちろん、世界のビッグ７の一艦になるわね。\nえ？主砲火薬庫爆発事故？\nまあ、隠してもしょうがないわね。今度は大丈夫よ！
Battleship Nagato class's second ship, Mutsu. Pleased to meet you. Don't play with fire too much, okay? Please...
Battleship Nagato class's second ship and from there (referring to her name), Mutsu. Of course, I'm part of the world's Big 7. Ehh? The gunpowder explosion accident? Well, can't cover it up anymore right? This time will be fine!
277
Akagi Kai
航空母艦、赤城です。\n空母機動部隊を編制するなら、私にお任せくださいませ。
航空母艦、赤城です。\n空母機動部隊の主力として快進撃を支えます。\n日頃鍛錬を積んだ自慢の艦載機との組み合わせは、無敵艦隊とも言われたんです。慢心…ですって？\nううん、そうかなあ……気をつけますね。
278
Kaga Kai
航空母艦、加賀です。\n貴方が私の提督なの？　それなりに期待はしているわ。
私、加賀は、八八艦隊３番艦として建造されました。\n様々な運命のいたずらもあって、最終的に大型航空母艦として完成しました。\n赤城さんと共に、栄光の第一航空戦隊、その主力を担います。
279
Souryuu Kai
航空母艦、蒼龍です。\n空母機動部隊を編制するなら、私もぜひ入れてね！
航空母艦、蒼龍です。\n真珠湾攻撃から始まって、緒戦の重要な戦いに、主力空母の一隻として参加しました。\nえ？なに、ミッドウェー？なにそれ、美味しいの？
280
Hiryuu Kai
航空母艦、飛龍です。\n空母戦ならお任せ！どんな苦境でも戦えます！
飛龍型航空母艦、飛龍です。…ん？蒼龍型改じゃないかって？いいじゃん、そんなこと。\nそれより、索敵は大切にねッ。空母戦は先手必勝！\n慢心はダメ、ゼッタイ。慎重に、そして、大胆に戦い抜こうよ！
281
Ryuujou Kai
軽空母、龍驤や。独特なシルエットでしょ？\nでも、艦載機を次々繰り出す、\nちゃーんとした空母なんや。期待してや！
軽空母だけど、結構歴戦の空母なんよ、うち。\nああ、あの岩手沖での第四艦隊事件のこと？あれはきつかったー。\n波浪で艦橋圧壊…いや、ホントありえへん。
282
Shouhou Kai
軽空母、祥鳳です。はい、ちょっと小柄ですけど、\nぜひ提督の機動部隊に加えてくださいね！
祥鳳型航空母艦１番艦です。\n元々は潜水母艦だったんです。\n前衛艦隊や主力じゃない小艦隊に空母を配属するなら、ぜひ私を使ってね！\n運用によってはお役に立つはずです！
I'm the light aircraft carrier, Shouhou. Yes, I'm a little small, but please make a place for me on your fleet!
First of the Shouhou-class aircraft carriers. Originally, a submarine tender. If it's not the flagship or the main fleet but a small task-force, then by all means use me! If you make use of me, I'll surely get good results!
283
Hiyou Kai
名前は出雲ま…じゃなかった、飛鷹です。\n航空母艦よ。よろしくね、提督！
飛鷹よ。\n北米航路用の新造客船「出雲丸」を建造途中で改装した商船改造空母なの。\nでも、正規空母並の活躍を見せたんだから。ホントよ。
My name is Izumo Ma... No, Hiyou. I'm an aircraft carrier. Pleased to meet you, Admiral!
I'm Hiyou! Converted from the Northern line passenger liner 'Izumo-maru' into a carrier. But, I was able to operate at the same level as a full aircraft carrier. It's the truth!
284
Junyou Kai
商船改装空母、隼鷹でーすっ！\nひゃっはぁー！
戦時改造を前提に建造した豪華客船、橿原丸。\nその改装した姿が空母、隼鷹さ。\nちゃーんと戦い抜いて、最後まで生き残ったんだぜ。意外とやるでしょ？
Ex-merchant ship aircraft carrier, Junyo~! Woohoo!
Wartime remodeling based on the Luxury liner, Kashiwara Maru. The renovated appearance is the aircraft carrier, Jun'you. I fought properly, and survived until the end. Ain't I surprisingly capable ?
285
Houshou Kai
航空母艦、鳳翔です。\nふつつか者ですが、よろしくお願い致します。
航空母艦、鳳翔と申します。\n最初から空母として建造された、世界で初めての航空母艦なんです。\n小さな艦ですが、頑張りますね。
286
Fusou Kai
扶桑型超弩級戦艦、姉の扶桑です。\n妹の山城ともども、よろしくお願い致します。
初の日本独自設計による超弩級戦艦、扶桑です。\n妹の山城ともどもよろしくお願いしますね。\nレイテ沖？　そうね、いつか突入してみたいわ。\nホントよ？
Of the two Fusou-class super-dreadnought battleships, I am the elder sister, Fusou. Please take care of me and my younger sister Yamashiro.
The first of the Japanese designs for the super-dreadnought battleship class, Fusou. Please remember to take care of my younger sister, Yamashiro, as well. Leyte Gulf? Oh well, I would like to go there someday. Right?
287
Yamashiro Kai
扶桑型戦艦姉妹、妹のほう、山城です。\nあの、扶桑姉さま、見ませんでした？
扶桑型戦艦２番艦、山城です。\n「欠陥戦艦」とか「艦隊にいる方が珍しい」とか、いいたい放題ね…。\nでも、いいの。最後の時も、扶桑姉さまと一緒に戦えれば……
288
Shoukaku Kai
翔鶴型航空母艦１番艦、翔鶴です。\n一航戦、二航戦の先輩方に、少しでも近づけるように\n瑞鶴と一緒に頑張ります！
翔鶴型航空母艦１番艦の翔鶴です。\n海軍軍縮条約失効後に設計建造された、本格的な大型正規空母として就役しました。妹の瑞鶴と共に第五航空戦隊を編成します。あの惨劇の後は、先輩方の後を継いで戦線を支えました。
I'm Shoukaku, the first of the Shoukaku-class carriers. I will try my best with Zuikaku to try and live up to the names of my seniors in the first and second aviation divisions.
I'm Shoukaku, the first ship in the Shoukaku carrier series. I was designed and built as the first purpose-built large regular carrier to serve after the Washington Treaty was renounced. With my sister Zuikaku, we make the fifth carrier division. Following the tragedy, we followed in the footsteps of our seniors and continued to support the front lines.
289
Kinu Kai
きたきたぁ！　鬼怒、いよいよ到着しましたよ！
神戸生まれの鬼怒だよ。\n舞鶴の学校で訓練に励んだんだ。色々と大変になってきた後は、南西方面で頑張ったよ…　いやぁ、大変だったなあ。球磨ちゃんには随分と助けてもらったんだ。\nでも…パナイ島だけはマジパナイ！
Yeah yeah yeah! Finally, Kinu has arrived!
Born in Kobe, I'm Kinu! I trained well at the Maizuru School. After lots of dangerous things happened, I did my best in the Southwest... Well, that was bad too. Kuma-chan was suprisingly helpful too. But... Panay Island was seriously panai!
290
Abukuma Kai
こ、こんにちは、軽巡、阿武隈です。
長良型軽巡洋艦の阿武隈です。\nはい…正直いって、北上さんは苦手です。なにあの人…でも、艦首もきれいに直して頑張りました！\n潮ちゃんも…ありがとね…。
H-hello, I'm Abukuma, a light cruiser.
I'm Abukuma of Nagara-class light cruisers. Yes... to be honest, I don't like Kitakami. What's with her... but, I endured and fixed my beautiful bow! Ushio too, thanks.
291
Chitose-Kou Kai
ダイエットして空母になった千歳です！\n足も速くなったの。本でも出そうかしら！
水上機母艦から空母に改装された千歳です。\nダイエットして体も絞って、脚も速くなったのよ。これなら機動部隊の一翼を担えるわ！\n頑張ります！
I'm the girl who took a diet and became an aircraft carrier, Chitose. I even got faster. Maybe I should write a book about it.
Renovated from a seaplane carrier to a carrier, I'm Chitose. Slimming down my body by dieting. My legs even became faster. This will let me play a part in the Task Force! I'll do my best for you!
292
Chiyoda-Kou Kai
空母になった千代田です。\nぜひ、千歳お姉と一緒に機動部隊を編制してね！
水上機母艦から大改装を受けて、航空母艦にジョブチェンジした千代田です。結構ちゃんとした空母でしょ？\n千歳お姉と一緒に敵機動部隊と戦うわ！
The girl that became an aircraft carrier, Chiyoda. Of course, I'll be assigned to Chitose-onee's fleet, yes?
Heavily remodeled from a seaplane tender, I'm the job-changed aircraft carrier Chiyoda. I'm quite the carrier, no? I'll fight the enemy air force together with Chitose-onee!
293
Yuubari Kai
はーい、お待たせ？\n兵装実験軽巡、夕張、到着いたしました！
コンパクトボディに充実の重武装を施した実験艦的存在の軽巡、夕張です。私の残したデータが、様々な重武装新鋭艦開発の元になったんだから！\n機関室に一発？何いってんの？\nほんと…失礼しちゃうわ。
Oka~y, thanks for waiting! The experimental armament cruiser 'Yuubari' has arrived!
A compact body enriched with heavy arms, the experimental light cruiser, Yuubari. The data that I left behind, those various newly-developed naval heavy weapons were certainly the cause! A shot in the engine room? What are you talking about? Really... how rude you are.
294
Maikaze Kai
こんにちは！陽炎型駆逐艦、舞風です。\n暗い雰囲気は苦手です！
陽炎型駆逐艦の舞風よ。\nミッドウェーから南方作戦まで、戦場で舞い続けたの。同じ陽炎型の野分とは仲良しよ。あのトラック島が襲撃された時も近くにいてくれたわ。
Hello~! Kagerou-class destroyer, Maikaze! I'm not good in gloomy atmospheres!
Kagerou-class destroyer Maikaze! From Midway to the Southern Operations, I continued to dance across the battlefield. I'm good friends with Nowaki, a fellow Kagerou-class. When Truk Island was attacked, I almost made it.
295
Kinugasa Kai
はーいっ！衣笠さんの登場よ！\n青葉ともども、よろしくね！
カタパルトをお初装備の衣笠さんよ、よろしくね。\nウェーク島攻略や珊瑚海海戦、そして、ソロモン海のアイアンボトムサウンドでも大活躍！\nでも…　飛行機っての？あれはちょっと嫌ね。
Ye~s, It's Miss Kinugasa's debut! Together with Aoba, take good care of me!
First to have a catapult equipped, Miss Kinugasa! Great to meet you. I performed magnificently in the capture of Wake Island and the Battle of the Coral Sea, and even the Solomon's Ironbottom Sound! But... planes, you know? I'm not really a fan...
296
Chitose-Kou Kai Ni
ダイエットして空母になった千歳です！\n足も速くなったの。本でも出そうかしら！
水上機母艦から空母に改装された千歳です。\nダイエットして体も絞って、脚も速くなったのよ。これなら機動部隊の一翼を担えるわ！\n頑張ります！
I'm the girl who took a diet and became an aircraft carrier, Chitose. I even got faster. Maybe I should write a book about it.
Renovated from a seaplane carrier to a carrier, I'm Chitose. Slimming down my body by dieting. My legs even became faster. This will let me play a part in the Task Force! I'll do my best for you!
297
Chiyoda-Kou Kai Ni
空母になった千代田です。\nぜひ、千歳お姉と一緒に機動部隊を編制してね！
水上機母艦から大改装を受けて、航空母艦にジョブチェンジした千代田です。結構ちゃんとした空母でしょ？\n千歳お姉と一緒に敵機動部隊と戦うわ！
The girl that became an aircraft carrier, Chiyoda. Of course, I'll be assigned to Chitose-onee's fleet, yes?
Heavily remodeled from a seaplane tender, I'm the job-changed aircraft carrier Chiyoda. I'm quite the carrier, no? I'll fight the enemy air force together with Chitose-onee!
300
Hatsukaze Kai
初風です、よろしく。\n提督さんにとって私は何人目の私かしら？
陽炎型駆逐艦、初風よ。\nブーゲンビルで妙高姉さんとぶつかって、艦首をばっさり切断…　で、航行不能になったところを集中砲火くらって…\n怖い…怖すぎる妙高姉さん…
I'm Hatsukaze, nice to meet you. Admiral, how many of me did you have before me, I wonder?
Kagerou-class destroyer, Hatsukaze. Myoukou-neesan and I crashed into each other off Bougainville, and my bow got torn off... Crippled and unable to move, I was the target of concentrated fire and then... I'm scared....I'm so scared, Myoukou-neesan...
301
Akigumo Kai
秋雲、着任！\n提督よろしくねっ！
横須賀生まれ横須賀育ちの秋雲さんだよ！陽炎型の中でも航続距離は南雲さんの目にも留まって、一航戦に入ったんだ。ていうか、自分では夕雲型だと思ってたんだけどな…ブツブツ…ま、いいや。その後、五航戦の護衛を務めたよ。翔鶴瑞鶴も描き残したかったな。
Akigumo, reporting for duty~ Look after me Admiral~
Yokosuka born and raised, I'm Akigumo! I'm in the the Kagerou-class, but my (overwhelming) cruising range caught the eye of Adm. Nagumo and so I joined the 1st CarDiv. I mean, I always thought I was a Yuugumo-class... (even our uniforms are the same)... *grumble, mutter*... ah, whatever. After that, I was assigned to guard the 5th CarDiv. I didn't get to finish drawing Shoukaku and Zuikaku, though...
302
Yuugumo Kai
夕雲型一番艦、夕雲、着任しました。\n提督、甘えてくれても、いいんですよ？
最終量産型艦隊駆逐艦の一番艦。舞鶴生まれよ。惨敗のミッドウェー海戦が初陣よ。いいじゃない、別に。\nあの島への鼠輸送やケ号作戦、南太平洋海戦、キスカ撤退作戦などで奮戦したわ。ふう。
First ship of the Yuugumo-class, Yuugumo, has arrived. Admiral, it's okay to spoil me a bit.
First ship of the final mass-production destroyers. Laid down in Maizuru. My first battle was the ignominious defeat at Midway. It's okay, I don't mind. In the Tokyo Express to that island, Operation Ke, the Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands and the evacuation of Kiska, I fought bravely, no? *sigh*
303
Makigumo Kai
夕雲型駆逐艦、巻雲といいます。\n夕雲姉さんを見習って、頑張ります！
夕雲型駆逐艦二番艦、巻雲です。\nホーネットの後始末、事情許さば拿捕曳航されたし…って云われても、結構無理ゲーだし…って、秋雲がこっち指差して笑ってるし。本当にもうなんなの？
Yuugumo-class destroyer, I am Makigumo. Following Yuugumo-neesan's example, I'll do my best!
I'm Makigumo, second ship of the Yuugumo-class Destroyers. While cleaning up after the Hornet, 'situation permitting, tow and capture it'... they said, but that was pretty much impossible... and now Akigumo's pointing and laughing at me. Seriously, what the heck?
304
Naganami Kai
夕雲型駆逐艦四番艦、長波サマだよ！\nさーいくぜ、オーッ！
マル4計画で建造されて戦時就航した夕雲型四番艦、長波だ。栄光の第二水雷戦隊で縦横無尽の活躍したぞ。\nガダルカナル島では、田中頼三少将の名指揮で、敵の待ち伏せを完膚なきまでに蹴散らしてやったぜ。
I'm Naganami, the fourth ship of the Yuugumo-class destroyers. And off we go. Yeah!
I'm Naganami, the fourth ship of the Yuugumo-class destroyers, built and launched during wartime under the maru-4 project. I rampaged all over as a member of the proud Second Torpedo Squadron. At Guadalcanal, we gave an enemy ambush a beat down under the famous command of Rear Admiral Raizo Tanaka.
305
Agano Kai
こんにちはーっ！\n最新鋭軽巡の阿賀野でーすっ。ふふ。
次世代の水雷戦隊の旗艦として設計＆建造された阿賀野型軽巡洋艦、その長女、一番艦の阿賀野よ。とってもとっても高性能なんだから！見てよ、この洗練された体…今度はゼッタイ本領発揮しちゃうからね。
Hello~! I'm the latest light cruiser Agano~. *giggle*
Designed and built as the next-generation of Torpedo squad flagships, Agano-class light cruiser, the eldest, is me, Agano! I've got the the high-end technology! Have a look, this refined body... This time, I'll certainly show off my special features!
306
Noshiro Kai
阿賀野型軽巡二番艦、能代。\n着任しました。よろしくどうぞ！
新鋭阿賀野型軽巡の二番艦、能代です。能代独自の飛行機運搬軌条がチャームポイントなんです。\nレイテ沖海戦でも主力の栗田艦隊の一員として頑張りました！
Second light cruiser of the Agano-class, Noshiro, has arrived. Glad to meet you!
Second of the newly-developed Agano-class Light Cruisers, Noshiro. The lone aircraft rail is my charmpoint. Even in Leyte Gulf, I did my best as a main member of Kurita's task force!
307
Yahagi Kai
軽巡矢矧、着任したわ。\n提督、最後まで頑張っていきましょう！
阿賀野型軽巡の三番艦、矢矧よ。\nマリアナ、レイテ、坊ノ岬と、後半の大きな海戦にはほとんど参加したわ。そうよ、最後の最後まで暴れてみせたの。私の記憶の途切れた後、大和はどうなったのかしら。ま、いいわ…　今度は全てを護りきるから！
Light Cruiser Yahagi, reporting for duty. Let's work at it together to the end, Admiral!
Yahagi, the third ship of the Agano-class light cruisers. I've participated in most of the major sea battles during the latter part of the war, including the Mariana Straits, Leyte Gulf, and Bonomisaki. That's right, I fought it out to the very end. I wonder what happened to Yamato, after my memories trailed off. Oh well... This time, I'm going to protect everything!
308
Yayoi Kai
初めまして、弥生、着任…。\nあ、気を使わないでくれていい…です。
睦月型駆逐艦三番艦「弥生」です。\n横須賀の浦賀生まれ。「睦月」や「望月」と艦隊を組んで色々頑張りました。爆撃機とかは嫌い。よろしくね。
Yayoi, reporting for duty... Pleased to meet you. Please don't be too concerned about me...
Third of the Mutsuki-class destroyers, 'Yayoi'. I was born at Uraga, Yokosuka. Mutsuki, Mochizuki and I did our best as a task force. I dislike dive bombers. Please take good care of me.
309
Uzuki Kai
やったぁ！ でたっぴょん！ 卯月でっす！ \nうーちゃんって呼ばれてまっす！
睦月型駆逐艦四番艦の「卯月」だぴょん。船団護衛から攻略作戦まで、頑張って働いたんでっす！\n最後のほうは砲をいくつか下して機銃を一杯積んだよ。\nうーちゃん、爆撃じゃ沈まないから！
Yay~! I arrived-pyon! My name is Uzuki, you can call me U-chan!
Fourth of the Mutsuki-class destroyers, 'Uzuki'-pyon. From convoy escorting to capture operations, I worked re~ally hard! Near the end I was loaded up with lots of machine-guns to down them all! U-chan won't be sunk by bombers!
310
Z1 Kai
Guten Morgen.\n僕の名前はレーベレヒト・マース。\nレーベでいいよ…うん。
ドイツ生まれの駆逐艦、その本格的な大型駆逐艦の一番艦だよ。\n高温高圧缶や機関部のシフト配置など、技術の国ならではの設計になっているんだ。あまり外洋での艦隊戦は得意じゃないけど…　頑張るよ！
Good morning. I'm Leberecht Maass. Lebe is fine, yep.
The German-born destroyer, the first genuine large-type. This shifted high temperature, high pressure engine, it could only have been designed in the country of technical skills! I'm not so great at open-sea warfare though... I'll do my best!
311
Z3 Kai
Guten Tag.\n私は駆逐艦マックス・シュルツよ。\nマックス…でもいいけれど。よろしく。
ドイツ1934年計画型駆逐艦、その三番艦よ。\n生存性の高い設計の本格的駆逐艦だけれど…新型のタービンは少し整備に難もあるけれど。\n今度は…大丈夫。
Good day. I am the Destroyer Max Schultz. But, Max is fine. Pleased to meet you.
Zerstörer 1934 program, third ship. I was designed with good survivability, but... these new turbines have a small issue with maintenance. This time... I shall be alright.
312
Hamakaze Kai
駆逐艦、浜風です。\nこれより貴艦隊所属となります。
浜風です。数々の激戦に参加しました。\nレイテでは金剛を中心とした輪形陣。そして、武蔵や金剛、あの信濃の最期もこの目に焼き付けることになりました。運命の坊ノ岬では、雪風らと共に大和を護って奮闘します。
I'm destroyer Hamakaze. Henceforth commencing fleet duties.
313
Tanikaze Kai
提督、谷風だよ。\nこれからお世話になるね！
谷風さんだよ。\nあのミッドウェー海戦では、飛龍を助けようとしてたらくそ敵機から雨あられの集中爆撃…。あんときゃまいったけど、勝見艦長がすげえんだ、マジで。
Admiral, I'm Tanikaze! I'll be in your care from now on.
Madam Tanikaze here! I was helpin' out Hiryuu during the Battle of Midway, damn enemy planes were dropping bombs on us like rain... Back then, C'mmander Katsumi was amazin' like seriously.
314
Sakawa Kai
ぴゃん♪　阿賀野型軽巡四番艦、酒匂です！\n司令、よろしくね！
阿賀野型軽巡姉妹の末っ子、四番艦の酒匂だよ。\n生まれるのが遅すぎたかな、あまりお外にはいけなかった。矢矧ちゃんと一緒に行きたかったけど…舞鶴でお留守番したの。
Pyan♪ The fourth Agano class Light Cruiser, Sakawa! Commander, nice to meet you!
I'm Sakawa, the fourth ship and the youngest of the Agano-class light cruiser sisters. I was born too late, so I couldn't go outside much. I wanted to go together with Yahagi-chan... but I ended up guarding Maizuru.
316
Amatsukaze Kai
いい風きてる？\n次世代型駆逐艦のプロトタイプ、\nあたし、天津風の出番ね。
陽炎型駆逐艦九番艦の天津風です。\n次世代の艦隊型駆逐艦のための新型高温高圧缶のテストベッドを務めたのよ。データはしっかりとって、島風に渡したわ。幾多のピンチも頑張って乗り越えたのよ。\n大変だったんだから！
317
Urakaze Kai
うち、浦風じゃ、よろしくね！
生まれは大阪、所属は呉。真珠湾からガダルカナルまで駆けまわったんじゃ。\n最期は金剛姉さんを護衛して台湾海峡…\nまぁ、もうどうにもならんなぁ……。
It's me, Urakaze, nice to meet 'ya!
Osaka-born, attached to Kure. I saw action from Pearl Harbor to Guadalcanal. My last moments were escorting Kongou nee-san at the Taiwan Strait. Anyway, there's nothing that can be done anymore...
318
Ryuuhou Kai
潜水母艦改装空母の龍鳳です。\n航空母艦として、私、頑張ります！
潜水母艦改装空母の龍鳳です。\n機関の換装の影響で速度は計画通りには出なかったけれど、このクラスの軽空母としては充実の飛行甲板と兵装なんです。\n空母龍鳳、精一杯頑張ります！
Carrier Ryuuhou, remodeled from a Submarine Tender. I'll once again try my best as a carrier!
Carrier Ryuuhou, remodeled from a Submarine Tender. My speed was not up to plan specifications as there were issues with changing the boilers, but I have an enhanced flight deck and armaments as this Light Carrier class. Carrier Ryuuhou, giving it her all!
319
Myoukou Kai Ni
私、妙高型重巡洋艦、妙高と申します。\n共に頑張りましょう。
ワシントン海軍軍縮条約下で建造された重巡洋艦です。平賀譲氏設計による日本海軍の第一級の戦闘艦です。\n現代の海上自衛隊のイージス艦にも、その名は受け継がれています。
Myoukou-class Heavy Cruiser, Myoukou. Let's do our best together until the end.
A heavy cruiser built under the auspices of the Washington Naval Treaty. I'm a first-class warship of the Japanese Navy designed by Yuzuru Hiraga. This name has also been passed on to Aegis destroyers of the modern MSDF.
320
Isokaze Kai
陽炎型駆逐艦十二番艦、磯風。\n司令、共に進もう…心配はいらない。
陽炎型駆逐艦十二番艦、磯風だ。\n戦歴ならあの雪風にも遅れはとらぬ。数々の海戦、決戦に参加し、戦い抜いたんだ。大和・武蔵・金剛・大鳳…彼女達の最期もこの目に焼き付いている。今度こそ…護り抜くさ。
12th Kagerou-class destroyer, Isokaze. Commander, let's proceed together. You do not need to worry.　
12th Kagerou-class destroyer, Isokaze. If it's about combat experience, I won't fall behind that Yukikaze. I've fought again and again, participated in decisive battles, and fought to the bitter end. Yamato, Musashi, Kongou, Taihou... their last moments have been etched into my eyes. This time... I will protect them.
321
Ooyodo Kai
提督、旗艦大淀、お供いたします。\n前線艦隊指揮はどうぞお任せください！
艦隊旗艦として特化設計された新鋭軽巡洋艦、\n大淀です。\n搭載予定の新型水偵の失敗や戦局の変化もあって、連合艦隊旗艦としてはあまり活躍できなかったの。でも、北号作戦や礼号作戦では活躍したのよ。私も前線で、頑張りますね。
Admiral, I, Flagship Ooyodo shall accompany you. Please leave the front line fleet administration to me.
Designed as a cutting edge C&C flagship, the newest light cruiser, Ooyodo. There was a problem with the installation of the specified new model recon, & the battle situation changed, so I wasn't really able to undertake my role as the combined fleet flagship. However, I participated in the Northern Operation & the Operation Rei-Go. I, too, will do my best on the front lines.
322
Tokitsukaze Kai
陽炎型駆逐艦十番艦。\n時津風……出るよ。
陽炎型十番艦の時津風だよ。\n雪風、初風、天津風とで第十六駆逐隊を編成、仲良く色々と頑張ったんだよ。二水戦にもいたんだよ、ほんとほんと。\nでも、制海権の無い海は…ちょっと嫌かなーって。
Kagerou-class Destroyer tenth ship. Tokitsukaze... has arrived!
Tenth Kagerou-class Destroyer, Tokitsukaze. I worked hard in the 16th Destroyer Division with my friends Yukikaze, Hatsukaze, and Amatsukaze. I was also in the Second Torpedo Squadron you know, really, really. But...an uncontrolled sea seems...kinda unpleasant.
323
Harusame Kai
白露型駆逐艦五番艦の春雨です、はい。\n輸送作戦はお任せください……です。
白露型駆逐艦五番艦の春雨です。\nおいしそう…ってその春雨とは違います！村雨や夕立姉さんたちと共に第二駆逐隊として海を駆け巡りました！輸送や護衛任務は、少し得意なんです。はい！
Fifth Shiratsuyu-class destroyer, Harusame, yes. Leave the transport missions to me... desu.
Fifth Shiratsuyu-class destroyer, Harusame. Delicious... wait! that's a different kind of Harusame! With Murasame and big sis Yuudachi we cruised the sea as Destroyer Division 2! I'm a bit good at transport and guarding mission, yes!
324
Hayashimo Kai
また…来てしまったのね、この海に。\n夕雲型駆逐艦、早霜…着任しました。
夕雲型駆逐艦、その十七番目、早霜です。\n舞鶴海軍工廠生まれ。だいぶ押し迫った頃に生まれました。レイテ沖海戦にリンガ泊地から出撃して…色々な光景を見ました。
I've... come again, to these seas. Yuugumo-class destroyer, Hayashimo... reporting for duty.
I'm the 17th of the Yuugumo-class Destroyer, Hayashimo. I was born in the Maizuru Naval Base Factory, to times of impending troubles. I launched for the Battle of Leyte Gulf from the Lingga Naval Anchorage... And I've seen many things.
325
Kiyoshimo Kai
どうも！夕雲型の最終艦、清霜です。\n到着遅れました、よろしくお願いです！
夕雲型駆逐艦のラスト、十九番艦の清霜です。\n浦賀生まれですよ。もう、そうとう辛い戦局の中で生まれたの。短い間だったけど、縦横無尽に活躍したわ。凄惨だったレイテはもちろん、あの礼号作戦にも参加したのよ！どう？
Hello! Last of the Yuugumo-class, it's Kiyoshimo! I'm a bit late, but I'll be in your care!
I'm Kiyoshimo, the 19th and last of the Yuugumo class destroyers. I was born in Uraga dontcha know. And goodness, what a horrible situation it was that I was born into too. I wasn't around for long but I took part in several fleet actions. Leyte was, of course, apalling to see but I even took part in Operation Rei-gou! How's that?
326
Hatsuharu Kai Ni
わらわが初春じゃ。\nよろしく頼みますぞ。
初春型駆逐艦、１番艦の初春じゃ。\nわらわは、北方部隊に所属。戦雲渦巻くアッツやキスカなどの北方海域で活躍したぞ。北海道周辺も好きな海域じゃな。マニラ湾やオルモック…？ああ、熱いところは苦手じゃ。
We are Hatsuharu. With us following, thou wilt be fine!
We are the first Hatsuharu-class destroyer, Hatsuharu. We were attached to the Northern Force. As the clouds of war gathers, we did our duty in the Northern seas at such places as Attu and Kiska. The seas around Hokkaido are our favourite, no? The Gulf of Manila and Ormoc... ah, we are weak to the heat.
327
Asagumo Kai
朝潮型駆逐艦、朝雲、着任したわ！\n貴方が司令…かあ。ふうーん。ま、いいわ。\n私がやったげる！
朝潮型駆逐艦五番艦、朝雲よ。\n盟友の山雲と一緒に、様々な戦場を駆け抜けたのよ。そう、第九駆逐隊。有名でしょ？\nえ、知らないって？私、冗談ってあまり好きじゃないの。覚えておいてよ！
Asashio-class destroyer, Asagumo, armed and ready! Yes, Commander? Then let's get to work!
Asashio-class destroyer number 5, Asagumo. Together with my sworn friend Yamagumo, we made it through many battlefields. That's right, the 9th DesDiv. Famous, right? Eh, you haven't heard of us? You know, I don't really like jokes. Remember that!
328
Yamagumo Kai
おはようございます～。\n朝潮型駆逐艦六番艦、山雲、入ります～。
朝潮型駆逐艦六番艦の山雲です～。\n大阪生まれの横須賀育ちなの～。そうね、機雷とかは注意しないといけないわね～。\n護衛や哨戒で活躍、そしてマリアナ、西村艦隊の一員としてレイテにも参加したわ～。
Good morning~~. Asashio Destroyer number six, Yamagumo. Please treat me well!
I'm the sixth Asashio-class destroyer, Yamagumo~ I was born in Osaka and raised in Yokosuka~ Uh-huh, I'll have to watch out for sea mines~ I was active in escort and patrol missions, then deployed to the Marianas and also Leyte Gulf as part of the Nishimura fleet~
329
Nowaki Kai
陽炎型駆逐艦、野分。参上しました。\nさあ、司令。いきましょう。
陽炎型駆逐艦十五番艦、野分です。舞鶴生まれです。\n舞風と一緒に第四駆逐隊に所属しました。\n緒戦は那珂さん率いる四水戦と共に南方作戦、そしてミッドウェー、マリアナ、レイテにも参加。できること…全力で頑張りました。
Kagerou-class Destroyer, Nowaki, reporting in. Well, Commander. Let us proceed.
Kagerou-class destroyer number 15, Nowaki. Born in Maizuru. I was with Maikaze in the 4th DesDiv. At the start of the war, I participated in the Southern Operation in the Fourth Torpedo Squadron under Naka-san, as well as Midway, Mariana, and Leyte. I will do my best with whatever I can.
330
Akizuki Kai
秋月型防空駆逐艦、一番艦、秋月。\nここに推参致しました。お任せください！
艦隊防空のために建造された乙型一等駆逐艦、秋月型駆逐艦一番艦、秋月です。\n４基８門の長10cm砲と高射装置を備えた防空艦として僚艦の初月らと共に第61駆逐隊を編成しました。頑張ります！
Akizuki-class anti-air destroyer, first ship, Akizuki. I'm reporting in here. Please leave it to me!
Designed for the fleet's anti-air, Type-B first class destroyer, Akizuki-class first destroyer, Akizuki. As an anti-air ship equipped with 4x 8-barrel Long 10cm guns and anti-aircraft fire director, along with Hatsuzuki and the others, we formed the 61st DesDiv. I'll do my best!
331
Amagi
雲龍型航空母艦、天城と申します。\n提督、どうぞよろしくお願い致します。\n天城、精進致します！
雲龍型航空母艦、その二番艦、天城です。戦時急造計画であるマル急計画により、建造されました。\n空母機動部隊として運用されることは叶いませんでしたが、呉空襲時の対空戦で奮闘しました。
I'm Amagi, an Unryuu-class Carrier. Thanks for your recruitment, Admiral. Amagi will concentrate!
I'm Amagi, second Carrier of the Unryuu Class. My construction following the Rapid Naval Armaments Supplement Program. Even though I couldn't join the Mobile Striking Force, I did my best in the air raid at Kure Naval base.
332
Katsuragi
雲龍型航空母艦、三番艦、葛城よ！\nえ？　水上防空砲台ですって？\nち、違うわよ！　提督、何いってんの！
雲龍型航空母艦の三番艦、葛城よ。そう、正規空母。\nちょっと生まれるのが遅かったみたい。でも、戦いが終わった後で、私は全力で働いたの。ある意味、私が一番なんだから。ホントよ？ホントなんだから。
I'm Katsuragi, the third ship of the Unryuu-Class Carriers! Eh? 'A floating anti-air gun platform'? I-It's not like that...! What are you saying!
I'm Katsuragi, the third ship of the Unryuu-Class Carriers!  Yes, a standard aircraft carrier. Looks like I was late. But after the battle was over, I was working at full power. In a sense, I am the best. It's the truth! Really it's true!
334
U-511 Kai
ドイツ海軍所属、潜水艦U-511です。\nユーとお呼びください。\n少し遠出してきました。よろしくお願い致します……。
ドイツ海軍のUボート、潜水艦U-511……です。\n頑張って、ここまで来ました。\n皆と仲良くなれたら…いいなって…ここの文化に馴染めたらいいなって…思います。
Submarine U-511 of the German Navy, please call me Yuu.<br />I've come a long way, so I'll be in your care...
I'm the... German Navy U-Boat, U-511.<br />I worked hard to come here.<br />If I could be friends... with everyone... and get acquainted with this place's culture... I think that'd be nice.
343
Katori Kai
練習巡洋艦、香取です。\n心配しないで…。色々と優しく、\n指導させて頂きますから。
香取型練習巡洋艦一番艦の香取です。\nはい、練習遠洋航海の指揮は、お任せください。必ずや艦隊の練度向上にお力添えできると思います。え、戦艦との砲撃戦…ですか？それは用兵的にどうなのでしょうか。
I'm Katori, a Training Cruiser. Don't you worry... I'll be gentle in teaching you various things.
First of the Katori-class training cruisers, Katori. Right, leave the ocean navigation training to me. I believe I'll be a great help in furthering what the fleet attains out of it's drills, for sure. Eh, my firepower in comparison to a battleship... is it? I wonder, tactics-wise, how it is.
344
Asashimo Kai
よお！　夕雲型駆逐艦、十六番艦の朝霜、\nいつでも出撃できんぜ。\nまだまだ、暴れよう…な、司令！
あたいは夕雲型駆逐艦、その十六番艦、朝霜さ。よーく覚えとおくんだよ。\n戦況が悪化した頃にデビューしたんだ。でも、その末期の戦線を、文字通り縦横無尽に駆けまわったぜ。やるだけ…やったさ！
Yo! It's the 16th Destroyer of the Yuugumo class, Asashimo. Always ready, never stop rampaging! Eh Commander?
I'm the 16th Destroyer of the Yuugumo Class, Asashimo. Remember it well. I made my debut when the war situation got worse. I ran about freely at the front lines of the end stage. I did...all I could!
345
Takanami Kai
夕雲型駆逐艦、六番艦の高波です。\nあ、あの…頑張ります！ホントかもです！
夕雲型駆逐艦６番艦、高波です。浦賀生まれです。\n第三十一駆逐隊に編入され、活躍したかもです。運命のルンガ沖夜戦でも警戒隊の旗艦として敵を発見…、艦隊の勝利に貢献したかも…です。はい！
Destroyer Takanami of the Yuugumo-class will give her best this time! Really, probably!
I'm Takanami, the sixth Yuugumo-class Destroyer. Born in Uraga.  I was assigned to the 31st Destroyer Division, and I had done my part well.  On a fateful night battle at Lunga Point, as the Leadship of the Lookouts squad, our crew first spotted the enemy fleet... and that may have brought victory to the battle... Yup!
346
Teruzuki Kai
秋月型防空駆逐艦、二番艦の照月よ。\n戦艦の護衛でも、鼠輸送でも、なんでもこなしちゃうんだから！
秋月型防空駆逐艦二番艦、照月よ。\n秋月姉と第61駆逐隊を編成しました。ソロモンの激戦では、比叡さんや霧島さんと共に戦ったのよ！え？ドラム缶による鼠輸送？ああ、あれは…あれはね…。
I am Teruzuki, the second ship of Akizuki-class Anti-air Destroyer! I can carry out anything from escorting battleships to supply transport missions!
Second of Akizuki-class Anti-air Destroyer, Teruzuki. With Akizuki-nee, we're organized as Destroyer Squadron 61. In the Battle of Solomon, we fought together with Hiei-san and Kirishima-san! What? The supply drum transport? Ah... that's.... that's...
347
Libeccio Kai
ブォンジョールノ！\nマエストラーレ級駆逐艦、リベッチオです。\nリベでいいよ。提督さん、よろしくね！
イタリア海軍の駆逐艦、マエストラーレ級三番艦、リベッチオです。提督さん、よろしくね！\nえ、タラント空襲？余裕です！船団護衛でも頑張りたかったけど…救助中はやめてほしいよ～！
Buongiorno! I'm Libeccio, a Maestrale-class destroyer! Just Libe is fine. Nice to meet you Admiral!
Italian Navy Destroyer, third Maestrale-class, Libeccio. Admiral, Nice to meet you!  What, Battle of Taranto? That's easy! Although I wanted to do my best in escort fleet, I want to quit in the middle of the rescue.
348
Mizuho Kai
提督、お疲れさまです。\n水上機母艦、瑞穂、推参致しました。\nどうぞよろしくお願い申し上げます。
水上機母艦、瑞穂です。千歳、千代田に続いて建造された、甲標的も運用可能な特殊水上機母艦です。新機軸の機関部があまり上手くいかなくって……でも、開戦初頭の南方作戦などに参加致しました。お役に立てるよう頑張りますね！
Admiral, thank you for your hard work. Seaplane Tender Mizuho has now arrived. It is a pleasure to meet you.
I am a seaplane tender, Mizuho. Together with Chitose and Chiyoda, I am capable of utilizing the Kouhyouteki midget submarine. Although I was not bestowed with the latest model engine, I manage to participate at the start of the Southern Operations. I shall do my best to meet your expectations.
349
Kazagumo Kai
夕雲型駆逐艦、三番艦の風雲よ。\nそっか、貴方が提督なんだ。了解です。\nご命令、どうぞ！
艦隊型駆逐艦、夕雲型駆逐艦の三番艦、風雲よ、よろしく。\nあのミッドウェーからソロモンまで、主戦場を駆けたのよ。運命の日の夜、燃える空母を見上げたの。龍の最期、忘れない。
Third ship of the Yuugumo class destroyers, Kazagumo. So you're the admiral. Roger. Well then, your orders!
Fleet type destroyer, Yuugumo class, Kazagumo. Regards. From Midway to Solomon, I advanced around the main battlefields. On that fateful night, I looked upon the burning aircraft carrier. I'll never forget the dragon's last moments.
350
Umikaze Kai
白露型駆逐艦七番艦、\nそして改白露型一番艦となる、海風です。\n提督、どうぞよろしくお願いします！
白露型駆逐艦七番艦、改白露型としては一番艦となる海風です。\nマル２計画によって建造されました。第二水雷戦隊の一翼として、ソロモン海の戦いにも参加しました。提督、どうぞよろしくお願い致します。
I am Umikaze, the Seventh of the Shiratsuyu-class Destroyer, and the First of the Revised Shiratsuyu-class. I'll be in your care, Admiral!
I am Umikaze, the Seventh of the Shiratsuyu Class Destroyer, and the First of the Revised Shiratsuyu Class. I was built according to the second Naval Armaments Supplement Program. I participated in the Battle of Guadalcanal, as part of the Second Torpedo Squadron. I will be in your care, Admiral.
351
Kawakaze Kai
白露型駆逐艦九番艦、\n改白露型の江風だよ。よろしくな！\nあ、読み方、間違えンなよ。
白露型九番艦、改白露型駆逐艦の江風だ。\nそうさ、海風の姉貴たちと同じ、マル２計画で建造されたよ。まー、働いた働いた。ソロモン海は何度も駆け回ったよ。最期は夜戦さ。敵さんの電探…ありゃー反則さ。
The ninth Shiratsuyu-class Destroyer, Kawakaze of the revised Shiratsuyu-class. Nice to meet you! Ah, about the reading of my name, do not get it wrong!
Ninth ship of the Shiratsuyu-class, the revised Shiratsuyu-class destroyer, Kawakaze. Well now, I was built under the Maru 2 program, the same as Umikaze and our big sisters. Maaan, that was some hard, hard work! We sailed the Solomon's seas many times over. My last moments were during night battle. The enemy's radar... really, what foul play!
352
Hayasui Kai
おはようございます！\n航空機搭載給油艦、速吸、頑張ります！\n艦載機も出撃用意、ばっちりです！
艦隊随伴型の給油艦、速吸です。よろしくお願いします！\n様々な物資を補給できる多用途給油艦でありながら、航空機の運用が可能な設計です。ミッドウェー海戦後の計画変更で流星の発進も可能となりました！
Good morning. Aircraft carrying oiler, Hayasui, will do her best. Preparations for sortie of aircraft are perfect!
Fleet escort oiler, Hayasui. Best regards! I'm a multi-purpose refuel vessel that can supply a variety of different materials and am also designed to carry carrier-based aircraft. With a change of plans after the Battle of Midway, I also became able to launch Ryuusei.
353
Graf Zeppelin Kai
Guten Morgen!　私が航空母艦、Graf Zeppelin だ。\n貴方がこの艦隊を預かる提督なのだな。\nそうか……了解だ。
Graf Zeppelin級航空母艦一番艦、Graf Zeppelinだ。立体的な通商破壊戦を展開できる重武装の本格空母だ。建造には日本の空母「赤城」の技術も参考にしたらしい。日本の艦隊…か……楽しみだな。
Guten morgen. Aircraft carrier Graf Zeppelin, reporting for duty. Admiral, I shall rely on you for today.
354
Arashi Kai
や！　陽炎型駆逐艦、十六番艦、嵐だ！\n司令、よろしくな！　逢えて嬉しいぜ！
陽炎型駆逐艦十六番艦、嵐だ。第四駆逐隊を編成して、四水戦で活躍したぜ。ミッドウェーでは、南雲機動部隊の護りについたんだ。その後も最前線を縦横無尽に駆け抜けて……最期の時は、暗い海での前線の輸送作戦。僚艦の萩風と一緒さ。嵐、そして四駆の仲間たち……覚えていてくれよな。頼むぜ。
Commander, take care of me, 'kay! It's great 'ta meet 'ya!
I'm the 16th ship in the Kagerou-class Destroyer line. I was part of the Fourth Destroyer Squadron, and was an asset to the Fourth Torpedo Squadron. At Midway, I was assigned as an escort to the Nagumo Carrier Task Force. After that, I also did occasional stints at the frontline as needed......Remember me... and my comrades of the Fourth Destroyer Squadron. Please.
355
Hagikaze Kai
陽炎型駆逐艦、十七番艦、萩風。参りました。\n司令、ご指示をお願いします。
陽炎型駆逐艦十七番艦、萩風です。浦賀生まれです。嵐と一緒に第四駆逐隊で頑張りました。南雲機動部隊の直衛、ソロモンの死闘を経験しました。最期の夜も…嵐と一緒です。私たち、四駆のこと、覚えていてくださいね。
Hagikaze, Fourth Destroyer Division, in position. Commander, please give me your orders!
I am Hagikaze, the 17th ship of the Kagerou-class Destroyer. I was born in Uraga. I worked diligently as part of the Fourth Destroyer Division with Arashi. Being the escort of the Nagumo Taskforce, I took part in the unforgiving battle in the Solomon Islands. I was with Arashi on my last night to. Please remember us, the Fourth Destroyer Division.
356
Kashima Kai
提督さん、お疲れさまです。\n練習巡洋艦、鹿島、着任です。うふふ。
香取型練習巡洋艦二番艦、妹の鹿島です。平和の海で、次代の艦隊を育てるために建造されました。その本来の役目を果たせる時間はあまり長くはありませんでしたが、艦隊旗艦や船団護衛、精一杯頑張りました。戦いが終わった後も、未来のために、私、頑張りました！　鹿島のこと、覚えていてくださいね。
Mr. Admiral, thanks for your hard work. Kashima here. Let's do our best again today. I'm counting on you.
357
Iowa Kai
Hi！ MeがIowa級戦艦、Iowaよ。\nYouがこの艦隊のAdmiralなの？ いいじゃない！\n私たちのこともよろしく！
Hi！　Iowa級戦艦Name Ship、Iowaよ。高速戦艦で、この重兵装。Battle shipの最終形ともいえる完成度。USAが生んだ最後の戦艦級として、この艦隊でも頑張るわ。よろしくね！
Fourth ship of the Akizuki-class Air Defense Destroyers, Hatsuzuki here. Are you fighting on as well? Then I shall protect you. That's a promise!
Fourth ship of the Akizuki-class anti-air destroyers, Hatsuzuki. I was born in Maizuru. My sisters and I formed the 61st Destroyer Division that fought in the Marianas and Leyte. In anti-air battles, I covered the rescue of aircraft carriers. Acting as a part of the fleet's rear guard, I faced the enemy.
398
I-168 Kai
伊１６８よ。何よ、言いにくいの？\nじゃ、イムヤでいいわ…よろしくねっ！
生れも育ちも呉の潜水艦なの。あのミッドウェーの大海戦のあと、飛龍が最後の力で深手を負わせたヨークタウンに止めを刺したのよ！空母たちの仇はとったわ！\nあの大変な島への輸送任務でも頑張ったの。
I'm I-168. What? It's hard to say? OK, just call me Imuya. Nice to meet you!
I am a submarine born and raised in Kure. After that battle of Midway, I managed to land the final blow to Yorktown who defeated Hiryuu! Our carriers were avenged! I also worked hard running transport missions to that terrible island.
399
I-58 Kai
こんにちは！ 伊五十八です。\nゴーヤって呼んでもいいよ！苦くなんかないよぉ！
最初から頑張って最後まで戦ったんだよ。苦しくなってからだって、凄い重巡だって仕留めたし！\n任務を全うして、全てが終わった後、無事に呉の母港に帰ったんだ。
Hello! I-58 here! You can call me Goya. I'm not bitter!
I have fought hard from the beginning to the end. Even when the war had became harsh, I managed to take down that heavy cruiser! After fulfilling my mission and everything was all over, I managed to make it back safely to Kure, my home port.
400
I-8 Kai
グーテンターク…あ、違った、ごめんなさいね…\n「はち」と呼んでくださいね。
遣独潜水艦作戦の第二次遣独艦として、かの地に向かったのよ。そして、Uボートをもらったの。この作戦は5回行われたんだけど、機雷とか色々あって、無事往復できたのは私だけなんですって…そうね、機雷なんてダイッキライ！
Guten Tag ... ah, my mistake... sorry, please call me "hachi".
I made it to Germany as the second submarine sent on the transoceanic voyage. Then, I received a U-boat. This operation was carried out 5 times, but because of mines and other events, I was the only one who was able to successfully complete the return trip... yeah, I really hate mines!
401
I-19 Kai
素敵な提督で嬉しいのね。\n伊十九なの。そう、イクって呼んでもいいの！
潜水艦、伊一九よ。うん、イク。正規空母ワスプを自慢の酸素魚雷で仕留めたの。さらにずーっと先を航行していた戦艦や駆逐艦にも命中したの。海のスナイパー、イクさんの活躍、ずーっと覚えていてなの…ね。
Such a great admiral makes me happy. I'm I-19. Yep, calling me 'Iku' is fine!
I'm the submarine I-19. Yes, Iku! I sunk the carrier Wasp with my pride and joy, my oxygen torpedoes! I was even able to hit a battleship and destroyer that was waaaay ahead of the carrier! Don't you forget Iku, Sniper of the Ocean's great abilities... 'kay?
402
Maruyu Kai
隊長、もっとまるゆに頑張らせてくださいね。
まるゆは海軍工廠出身じゃないので、同郷のお友達がいないんです。皆さんとちょっと違うっていうか…木曾さんには第一声で「何だお前、潜れるのか？」なんて言われちゃうし…まるゆ、ここで上手くやっていけるのかなあ…。
Sir, please let Maruyu keep working hard.
Maruyu isn’t from the Navy shipyards, so I don’t have any friends from home. I’m a little different from everyone else… I mean, the first thing Kiso-san said to me was “What are you. Can you actually go underwater?”... I'm starting to wonder if Maruyu can survive out here...
403
I-401 Kai
提督、ごきげんよう。\n潜特型二番艦伊401、改良型です！
伊４００型潜水艦二番艦、伊４０１です。\n地球をぐるっと一周以上余裕で航行できる長大な航続力と、特殊攻撃機「晴嵐」を３機搭載する潜水空母なんです。そう、戦略的秘密兵器…秘密なんだからっ！
A good day to you, Admiral. It's the upgraded I-401, of the special submarine class.
I'm I-401, the second ship in the I-400 submarine series. I'm a submarine carrier capable of making a round trip around the world, and carries 3 units of the special attack plane "Seiran". Yes, it's a secret tactical weapon... it's a secret, okay?
404
Unryuu
雲龍型航空母艦、雲龍、推参しました。\n提督、よろしくお願いしますね。
マル急計画によって戦時建造された雲龍型航空母艦の長女、雲龍よ。\n傑作中型空母の飛龍を改良した量産型正規空母なの。新生機動部隊の主力としての潜在実力は十分なのだけど…今度は見ててよね。
Unryuu class aircraft carrier, Unryuu, has arrived. Admiral, it's nice to meet you.
I am the elder sister of the Unryuu class aircraft carriers built under the Rapid Naval Armaments Supplement Programme during wartime. We are the improved mass-production version of the medium-sized carrier masterpiece, Hiryuu. I'll show you the immense potential of the main force of the reborn Mobile Task Force.
405
Harusame
白露型駆逐艦五番艦の春雨です、はい。\n輸送作戦はお任せください……です。
白露型駆逐艦五番艦の春雨です。\nおいしそう…ってその春雨とは違います！村雨や夕立姉さんたちと共に第二駆逐隊として海を駆け巡りました！輸送や護衛任務は、少し得意なんです。はい！
Fifth Shiratsuyu-class destroyer, Harusame, yes. Leave the transport missions to me... desu.
Fifth Shiratsuyu-class destroyer, Harusame. Delicious... wait! that's a different kind of Harusame! With Murasame and big sis Yuudachi we cruised the sea as Destroyer Division 2! I'm a bit good at transport and guarding mission, yes!
406
Unryuu Kai
雲龍型航空母艦、雲龍、参ります。\n提督、新生機動部隊はお任せください！
マル急計画によって戦時建造された雲龍型航空母艦の長女、雲龍よ。\n傑作中型空母の飛龍を改良した量産型正規空母なの。新生機動部隊の主力としての潜在実力は十分なのだけど…今度は見ててよね。
Unryuu class aircraft carrier, Unryuu is here. Admiral, please leave the future of the task force to me.
I am the elder sister of the Unryuu class aircraft carriers built under the Rapid Naval Armaments Supplement Programme during wartime. We are the improved mass-production version of the medium-sized carrier masterpiece, Hiryuu. I'll show you the immense potential of the main force of the reborn Mobile Task Force.
407
Ushio Kai Ni
特型駆逐艦…綾波型の「潮」です。\nもう下がってよろしいでしょうか…。
綾波型１０番艦の潮です。\nレイテ沖海戦などの激戦を潜り抜け、運命のあの日、横須賀で御役目を終えるまで戦い抜きました。\nあ、あの…沈めた敵艦の皆さんも…ホントはお助けしたいのです。ホントです！
408
Junyou Kai Ni
商船改装空母、隼鷹でーすっ！\nひゃっはぁー！
戦時改造を前提に建造した豪華客船、橿原丸。\nその改装した姿が空母、隼鷹さ。\nちゃーんと戦い抜いて、最後まで生き残ったんだぜ。意外とやるでしょ？
Ex-merchant ship aircraft carrier, Junyo~! Woohoo!
Wartime remodeling based on the Luxury liner, Kashiwara Maru. The renovated appearance is the aircraft carrier, Jun'you. I fought properly, and survived until the end. Ain't I surprisingly capable ?
409
Hayashimo
また…来てしまったのね、この海に。\n夕雲型駆逐艦、早霜…着任しました。
夕雲型駆逐艦、その十七番目、早霜です。\n舞鶴海軍工廠生まれ。だいぶ押し迫った頃に生まれました。レイテ沖海戦にリンガ泊地から出撃して…色々な光景を見ました。
I've... come again, to these seas. Yuugumo-class destroyer, Hayashimo... reporting for duty.
I'm the 17th of the Yuugumo-class Destroyer, Hayashimo. I was born in the Maizuru Naval Base Factory, to times of impending troubles. I launched for the Battle of Leyte Gulf from the Lingga Naval Anchorage... And I've seen many things.
410
Kiyoshimo
どうも！夕雲型の最終艦、清霜です。\n到着遅れました、よろしくお願いです！
夕雲型駆逐艦のラスト、十九番艦の清霜です。\n浦賀生まれですよ。もう、そうとう辛い戦局の中で生まれたの。短い間だったけど、縦横無尽に活躍したわ。凄惨だったレイテはもちろん、あの礼号作戦にも参加したのよ！どう？
Hello! Last of the Yuugumo-class, it's Kiyoshimo! I'm a bit late, but I'll be in your care!
I'm Kiyoshimo, the 19th and last of the Yuugumo class destroyers. I was born in Uraga dontcha know. And goodness, what a horrible situation it was that I was born into too. I wasn't around for long but I took part in several fleet actions. Leyte was, of course, apalling to see but I even took part in Operation Rei-gou! How's that?
411
Fusou Kai Ni
扶桑型超弩級戦艦、姉の扶桑です。\n妹の山城ともども、よろしくお願い致します。
初の日本独自設計による超弩級戦艦、扶桑です。\n妹の山城ともどもよろしくお願いしますね。\nレイテ沖？　そうね、いつか突入してみたいわ。\nホントよ？
Of the two Fusou-class super-dreadnought battleships, I am the elder sister, Fusou. Please take care of me and my younger sister Yamashiro.
The first of the Japanese designs for the super-dreadnought battleship class, Fusou. Please remember to take care of my younger sister, Yamashiro, as well. Leyte Gulf? Oh well, I would like to go there someday. Right?
412
Yamashiro Kai Ni
扶桑型戦艦姉妹、妹のほう、山城です。\nあの、扶桑姉さま、見ませんでした？
扶桑型戦艦２番艦、山城です。\n「欠陥戦艦」とか「艦隊にいる方が珍しい」とか、いいたい放題ね…。\nでも、いいの。最後の時も、扶桑姉さまと一緒に戦えれば……
413
Asagumo
朝潮型駆逐艦、朝雲、着任したわ！\n貴方が司令…かあ。ふうーん。ま、いいわ。\n私がやったげる！
朝潮型駆逐艦五番艦、朝雲よ。\n盟友の山雲と一緒に、様々な戦場を駆け抜けたのよ。そう、第九駆逐隊。有名でしょ？\nえ、知らないって？私、冗談ってあまり好きじゃないの。覚えておいてよ！
Asashio-class destroyer, Asagumo, reporting in! So you're the commander... huh. Hmm. Well, it's fine. I'll do it!
Asashio-class destroyer number 5, Asagumo. Together with my sworn friend Yamagumo, we made it through many battlefields. That's right, the 9th DesDiv. Famous, right? Eh, you haven't heard of us? You know, I don't really like jokes. Remember that!
414
Yamagumo
おはようございます～。\n朝潮型駆逐艦六番艦、山雲です～。\nよろしくお願い致します～。
朝潮型駆逐艦六番艦の山雲です～。\n大阪生まれの横須賀育ちなの～。そうね、機雷とかは注意しないといけないわね～。\n護衛や哨戒で活躍、そしてマリアナ、西村艦隊の一員としてレイテにも参加したわ～。
Good morning~~. Asashio Destroyer number six, Yamagumo. Please treat me well!
I'm the sixth Asashio-class destroyer, Yamagumo~ I was born in Osaka and raised in Yokosuka~ Uh-huh, I'll have to watch out for sea mines~ I was active in escort and patrol missions, then deployed to the Marianas and also Leyte Gulf as part of the Nishimura fleet~
415
Nowaki
陽炎型駆逐艦、野分。参上しました。\nさあ、司令。いきましょう。
陽炎型駆逐艦十五番艦、野分です。舞鶴生まれです。\n舞風と一緒に第四駆逐隊に所属しました。\n緒戦は那珂さん率いる四水戦と共に南方作戦、そしてミッドウェー、マリアナ、レイテにも参加。できること…全力で頑張りました。
Kagerou-class Destroyer, Nowaki, reporting in. Well, Commander. Let us proceed.
Kagerou-class destroyer number 15, Nowaki. Born in Maizuru. I was with Maikaze in the 4th DesDiv. At the start of the war, I participated in the Southern Operation in the Fourth Torpedo Squadron under Naka-san, as well as Midway, Mariana, and Leyte. I will do my best with whatever I can.
416
Furutaka Kai Ni
古鷹と言います。重巡洋艦のいいところ、\nたくさん知ってもらえると嬉しいです。
重巡洋艦、古鷹です。\n三川提督率いる第８艦隊の一員として、第一次ソロモン海戦では敵艦多数を撃破したんですよ！\nこれが、重巡なんです！
I'm Furutaka! I'm a little small for a heavy cruiser but... Heavy cruiser Furutaka will do her best today too!
Heavy cruiser, Furutaka. Selected by Vice Admiral Mikawa to be a member of the eighth fleet, I took out a lot of enemies at the first Battle of Solomon! This is what a heavy cruiser can do!
417
Kako Kai Ni
古鷹型重巡の2番艦、加古ってんだ、よっろしくぅー！
古鷹型重巡洋艦の２番艦、加古だよぉ。\n第一次ソロモン海戦で大活躍したんだからね！\nあ、帰り道？ホント、行きはよいよい、帰りは怖い～ってね！
Second Furutaka Class Heavy Cruiser, name's Kako! Ah, you know, hello again!
I'm the Second Furutaka Class Heavy Cruiser, Kako. I achieved quite a feat during the Battle of Savo Islands! Ah, the way back? Well, the verse "Going in is easy, but returning is scary" was no joke!
419
Hatsushimo Kai Ni
初春型四番艦、初霜です。\n皆さん、よろしくお願いします！
初春型駆逐艦の４番艦、初霜です。\nアリューシャン作戦、アッツ島沖海戦、キスカ島撤退作戦、マリアナ沖海戦、北号作戦、坊ノ岬沖海戦など、様々な激戦に参加しました！\nほんと、頑張ったんです！
Fourth ship of the Hatsuharu-class, Hatsushimo. Let's go and give it our all!
Fourth of the Hatsuharu-class destroyers, Hatsushimo. I was in lots of hard battles like the Operation AL, the Battle of the Komandorski Islands, the occupation of Kiska, the Battle of the Philippine Sea, Operation Hoku-Go and Ten-Ichi-Gō! I really did my best!
420
Murakumo Kai Ni
あんたが司令官ね。\nま、せいぜい頑張りなさい！
特型駆逐艦、５番艦の叢雲よ。\nえ、知らないって？　全く、ありえないわね。\n南方作戦や、古鷹の救援、数々の作戦に参加した名艦の私を知らないって、あんた、もぐりでしょ！
Commander... well, do your best today. I'll do what I can to help.
421
Akizuki
秋月型防空駆逐艦、一番艦、秋月。\nここに推参致しました。お任せください！
艦隊防空のために建造された乙型一等駆逐艦、秋月型駆逐艦一番艦、秋月です。\n４基８門の長10cm砲と高射装置を備えた防空艦として僚艦の初月らと共に第61駆逐隊を編成しました。頑張ります！
Akizuki-class anti-air destroyer, first ship, Akizuki. I'm reporting in here. Please leave it to me!
Designed for the fleet's anti-air, Type-B first class destroyer, Akizuki-class first destroyer, Akizuki. As an anti-air ship equipped with 4x 8-barrel Long 10cm guns and anti-aircraft fire director, along with Hatsuzuki and the others, we formed the 61st DesDiv. I'll do my best!
422
Teruzuki
秋月型防空駆逐艦、二番艦の照月よ。\n秋月姉さん同様、どうぞよろしくお願いします。
秋月型防空駆逐艦二番艦、照月よ。\n秋月姉と第61駆逐隊を編成しました。ソロモンの激戦では、比叡さんや霧島さんと共に戦ったのよ！え？ドラム缶による鼠輸送？ああ、あれは…あれはね…。
I am Teruzuki, the second ship of Akizuki-class Anti-air Destroyer! As with Akizuki-neesan, it is a great honor to be in your care!
Second of Akizuki-class Anti-air Destroyer, Teruzuki. With Akizuki-nee, we're organized as Destroyer Squadron 61. In the Battle of Solomon, we fought together with Hiei-san and Kirishima-san! What? The supply drum transport? Ah... that's.... that's...
424
Takanami
夕雲型駆逐艦、六番艦の高波です。\nあ、あの…頑張ります！ホントかもです！
夕雲型駆逐艦６番艦、高波です。浦賀生まれです。\n第三十一駆逐隊に編入され、活躍したかもです。運命のルンガ沖夜戦でも警戒隊の旗艦として敵を発見…、艦隊の勝利に貢献したかも…です。はい！
I'm the sixth of the Yuugumo-class destroyers, Takanami. E-ehm, I will do my best! Really, probably!
I'm Takanami, the sixth Yuugumo-class Destroyer. Born in Uraga.  I was assigned to the 31st Destroyer Division, and I had done my part well.  On a fateful night battle at Lunga Point, as the Leadship of the Lookouts squad, our crew first spotted the enemy fleet... and that may have brought victory to the battle... Yup!
425
Asashimo
よお！　あたいは、夕雲型駆逐艦、十六番艦の朝霜さ。\n覚えといてよ。忘れんなよ……なあ！
あたいは夕雲型駆逐艦、その十六番艦、朝霜さ。よーく覚えとおくんだよ。\n戦況が悪化した頃にデビューしたんだ。でも、その末期の戦線を、文字通り縦横無尽に駆けまわったぜ。やるだけ…やったさ！
Yo! I'm Asashimo, 16th Destroyer of the Yuugumo Class. Please remember. Don't forget about me... ok?
I'm the 16th Destroyer of the Yuugumo Class, Asashimo. Remember it well. I made my debut when the war situation got worse. I ran about freely at the front lines of the end stage. I did...all I could!
426
Fubuki Kai Ni
はじめまして吹雪です。\nよろしくお願い致します。
ワシントン条約制限下で設計された、世界中を驚愕させたクラスを超えた特型駆逐艦の１番艦、吹雪です。\n私たちは、後の艦隊型駆逐艦のベースとなりました。\nはいっ、頑張ります！
Thanks for the hard work! Fubuki here! Aye, I'll do my best!
427
Choukai Kai Ni
私が鳥海です。よろしくです。
高雄型の４番艦、鳥海です。\nマレー、ソロモン、マリアナ、レイテと数々の作戦に参加しました。\n鳥海の名は、現在、海自のイージス護衛艦、その4番艦に受け継がれています。
Choukai has come back! I'll give my best today too.
Fourth of the Takao-class ships, Choukai. Deployed to Malaya, Solomon, Marianas and Leyte Gulf for many operations. My name is now given to a JSDF AEGIS-equipped escort vessel, fourth in its class.
428
Maya Kai Ni
よ！アタシ、摩耶ってんだ、よろしくな。
高雄型重巡洋艦３番艦の摩耶さまだ。\n生まれは神戸。南方作戦や激戦のソロモン海で暴れまくってやったぜ！\nああん？　レイテ？　んだよ、潜水艦って奴は苦手だよ。
Yo, Admiral! Working hard? Cause today is another day for me to kick some ass!
Third of the Takao-class heavy cruisers, Maya-sama! Kobe-built. I went hard in the Southern Ops and Solomon battles! Haah? Leyte? Nah, I'm not great with subs.
429
Amagi Kai
雲龍型航空母艦、天城です。\n提督、天城、今なら十分活躍できます！
雲龍型航空母艦、その二番艦、天城です。戦時急造計画であるマル急計画により、建造されました。\n空母機動部隊として運用されることは叶いませんでしたが、呉空襲時の対空戦で奮闘しました。
I'm Amagi, an Unryuu-class Carrier! Admiral, this time Amagi can play an active role!
I'm Amagi, second Carrier of the Unryuu Class. My construction following the Rapid Naval Armaments Supplement Program. Even though I couldn't join the Mobile Striking Force, I did my best in the air raid at Kure Naval base.
430
Katsuragi Kai
雲龍型航空母艦、三番艦、葛城よ！\nえ？　水上防空砲台ですって？\nち、違うわよ！　提督、何いってんの！
雲龍型航空母艦の三番艦、葛城よ。そう、正規空母。\nちょっと生まれるのが遅かったみたい。でも、戦いが終わった後で、私は全力で働いたの。ある意味、私が一番なんだから。ホントよ？ホントなんだから。
Aircraft carrier Katsuragi, heading forth! Watch what a true standard aircraft carrier is capable of!
I'm Katsuragi, the third ship of the Unryuu-Class Carriers!  Yes, a standard aircraft carrier. Looks like I was late. But after the battle was over, I was working at full power. In a sense, I am the best. It's the truth! Really it's true!
431
U-511
ドイツ海軍所属、潜水艦U-511です。\nユーとお呼びください。\n少し遠出してきました。よろしくお願い致します……。
ドイツ海軍のUボート、潜水艦U-511……です。\n頑張って、ここまで来ました。\n皆と仲良くなれたら…いいなって…ここの文化に馴染めたらいいなって…思います。
Submarine U-511 of the German Navy, please call me Yuu.<br />I've come a long way, so I'll be in your care...
I'm the... German Navy U-Boat, U-511.<br />I worked hard to come here.<br />If I could be friends... with everyone... and get acquainted with this place's culture... I think that'd be nice.
432
Graf Zeppelin
Guten Morgen!　私が航空母艦、Graf Zeppelin だ。\n貴方がこの艦隊を預かる提督なのだな。\nそうか……了解だ。
Graf Zeppelin級航空母艦一番艦、Graf Zeppelinだ。立体的な通商破壊戦を展開できる重武装の本格空母だ。建造には日本の空母「赤城」の技術も参考にしたらしい。日本の艦隊…か……楽しみだな。
Guten Morgen. I am the aircraft carrier, Graf Zeppelin. You are the admiral overseeing this fleet, yes? Is that so? Roger.
First of the Graf Zeppelin-class carriers, Graf Zeppelin. Capable of undertaking three-dimensional commerce raiding, I am a heavily armed and full-scale carrier. It seems that the technology used in the Japanese carrier, Akagi, was also referenced in my construction. A Japanese fleet, huh. I'm looking forward to it.
434
Mutsuki Kai Ni
睦月です。\nはりきって、まいりましょー！
帝国海軍の駆逐艦で初めて大型で強力な61cm魚雷を搭載しました、睦月です！\n旧式ながら、第一線で頑張ったのです！
435
Kisaragi Kai Ni
如月と申します。\nおそばに置いてくださいね。
睦月型駆逐艦２番艦の如月と申します。\nウェーク島では五月蠅いF4F戦闘機の攻撃を受けながら奮戦しました。\nいやん、ほんと、髪の毛が潮風で痛んじゃう……。
436
RO-500
UボートU-511改め、呂号第500潜水艦です。\nユーちゃん改め、ローちゃんです。\nテイトク、よろしくお願いしまーす！
ドイツ海軍のUボート、U-511を日本海軍式に改装して運用した、呂号第500潜水艦です。\n舞鶴を母港として運用されました。実戦には出なかったんだけど、対潜部隊の訓練などで活躍しました、はい！
Submarine RO500, formerly U-boat U-511. I'm Ro, formerly called Yuu! Admiral? I will be in your care
I'm RO-500, the Kriegsmarine U-boat U-511 remodeled for use by the Japanese Navy. I was operated from my home port of Maizuru. I may not have seen actual battle, but I did train hard with a counter-submarine fleet, yes!
437
Akatsuki Kai Ni
暁よ。\n一人前のレディーとして扱ってよね！
特Ⅲ型駆逐艦１番艦の暁よ。\n吹雪型をベースに航行性能や航続距離を向上させたの。特型駆逐艦の最終完成形なんだから！\nちゃんとレディーとして活躍したのよ！\nほ、ほんとなんだからっ。
441
Littorio
ヴィットリオ・ヴェネト級戦艦２番艦、リットリオです。\n火力と速度には自信があるの。よろしくお願いしますね。
パスタの国で生まれました。ヴィットリオ・ヴェネト級戦艦２番艦、リットリオです。\n高速で兵装も充実した新鋭高速戦艦です。妹の\nローマ共々、どうぞよろしくお願い致します。
The second ship of the Vittorio Veneto-class battleships, Littorio. I have confidence in my speed and firepower. Nice to meet ya ~
I was born in the country of Pasta. Second ship of the Vittorio Veneto class battleship, Littorio. Armed with high speed armaments and a state-of-the-art fast battleship. I have my sister, Roma, with me. It's a pleasure to meet you.
442
Roma
ヴィットリオ・ヴェネト級戦艦４番艦、\nローマです、よろしく。\n何？あまりジロジロ見ないでくださいね。
イタリア生まれの最新鋭艦よ。ヴィットリオ・ヴェネト級戦艦４番艦、ローマ。\nそうね、あの時は姉さんと一緒だったわ。あの化け物を落とされた日。忘れないわ、あの痛み。絶対忘れないんだから。
I'm the fourth battleship of the Vittorio Veneto-class, Roma. Nice to meet you. What? Please don't stare at me, okay?
The Italian-made, state of the art warship. Fourth of the Vittorio Veneto class battleships, Roma. Yes, I was together with my elder sister at that time. The day those monsters were dropped. I won't forget that pain. I absolutely won't forget it.
443
Libeccio
ブォンジョールノ！\nマエストラーレ級駆逐艦、リベッチオです。\nリベでいいよ。提督さん、よろしくね！
イタリア海軍の駆逐艦、マエストラーレ級三番艦、リベッチオです。提督さん、よろしくね！\nえ、タラント空襲？余裕です！船団護衛でも頑張りたかったけど…救助中はやめてほしいよ～！
Buongiorno! I'm Libeccio, a Maestrale-class destroyer! Just Libe is fine. Nice to meet you Admiral!
Italian Navy Destroyer, third Maestrale-class, Libeccio. Admiral, Nice to meet you!  What, Battle of Taranto? That's easy! Although I wanted to do my best in escort fleet, I want to quit in the middle of the rescue.
445
Akitsushima
水上機母艦、秋津洲よ！\nこの大艇ちゃんと一緒に覚えてよね！
あたしが水上機母艦、秋津洲よ！\nそう、大型飛行艇の運用支援や洋上補給のために建造された、飛行艇母艦。え、迷彩が厚化粧？　ホントに失礼かも。二式大艇ちゃんはあげないからね！
I'm Seaplane Tender Akitsushima! Make sure to remember me along with this Taitei-chan, alright!
I'm the Seaplane Tender Akitsushima! That's right, I'm a Flying Boat Tender constructed for the sake of assisting Large-sized Flying Boat and refueling at sea, among other things! Eh? Is my "makeup" too heavy? You're rude, maybe! I'm not letting you have Type 2 Taitei-chan, kay!
446
Italia
ヴィットリオ・ヴェネト級戦艦二番艦、\nリットリオ改め、イタリアです。\nよろしくお願いしますね。
パスタの国で生まれました。ヴィットリオ・ヴェネト級戦艦２番艦、リットリオ改め、イタリアです。\n高速で兵装も充実した新鋭高速戦艦です。妹の\nローマ共々、どうぞよろしくお願い致します。
The second ship of the Vittorio Veneto-class battleships, Littorio. I have confidence in my speed and firepower. Nice to meet ya ~
I was born in the country of Pasta. Second ship of the Vittorio Veneto class battleship, Littorio. Armed with high speed armaments and a state-of-the-art fast battleship. I have my sister, Roma, with me. It's a pleasure to meet you.
447
Roma Kai
ヴィットリオ・ヴェネト級戦艦４番艦、\nローマです、よろしく。\n何？あまりジロジロ見ないでくださいね。
イタリア生まれの最新鋭艦よ。ヴィットリオ・ヴェネト級戦艦４番艦、ローマ。\nそうね、あの時は姉さんと一緒だったわ。あの化け物を落とされた日。忘れないわ、あの痛み。絶対忘れないんだから。
I'm the fourth battleship of the Vittorio Veneto-class, Roma. Nice to meet you. What? Please don't stare at me, okay?
The Italian-made, state of the art warship. Fourth of the Vittorio Veneto class battleships, Roma. Yes, I was together with my elder sister at that time. The day those monsters were dropped. I won't forget that pain. I absolutely won't forget it.
450
Akitsushima Kai
水上機母艦、秋津洲よ！\nこの大艇ちゃんと一緒に覚えてよね！
あたしが水上機母艦、秋津洲よ！\nそう、大型飛行艇の運用支援や洋上補給のために建造された、飛行艇母艦。え、迷彩が厚化粧？　ホントに失礼かも。二式大艇ちゃんはあげないからね！
I'm Seaplane Tender Akitsushima! Have you already remembered Taitei-chan and I?
I'm the Seaplane Tender Akitsushima! That's right, I'm a Flying Boat Tender constructed for the sake of assisting Large-sized Flying Boat and refueling at sea, among other things! Eh? Is my "makeup" too heavy? You're rude, maybe! I'm not letting you have Type 2 Taitei-chan, kay!
451
Mizuho
提督、お疲れさまです。\n水上機母艦、瑞穂、推参致しました。\nどうぞよろしくお願い申し上げます。
水上機母艦、瑞穂です。千歳、千代田に続いて建造された、甲標的も運用可能な特殊水上機母艦です。新機軸の機関部があまり上手くいかなくって……でも、開戦初頭の南方作戦などに参加致しました。お役に立てるよう頑張りますね！
Admiral, thank you for your hard work. Seaplane Tender Mizuho has now arrived. It is a pleasure to meet you.
I am a seaplane tender, Mizuho. Together with Chitose and Chiyoda, I am capable of utilizing the Kouhyouteki midget submarine. Although I was not bestowed with the latest model engine, I manage to participate at the start of the Southern Operations. I shall do my best to meet your expectations.
453
Kazagumo
夕雲型駆逐艦、三番艦の風雲よ。\nそっか、貴方が提督なんだ。了解です。\nご命令、どうぞ！
艦隊型駆逐艦、夕雲型駆逐艦の三番艦、風雲よ、よろしく。\nあのミッドウェーからソロモンまで、主戦場を駆けたのよ。運命の日の夜、燃える空母を見上げたの。龍の最期、忘れない。
Third ship of the Yuugumo class destroyers, Kazagumo. So you're the admiral. Roger. Well then, your orders!
Fleet type destroyer, Yuugumo class, Kazagumo. Regards. From Midway to Solomon, I advanced around the main battlefields. On that fateful night, I looked upon the burning aircraft carrier. I'll never forget the dragon's last moments.
454
Arashi
や！　陽炎型駆逐艦、十六番艦、嵐だ！\n司令、よろしくな！　逢えて嬉しいぜ！
陽炎型駆逐艦十六番艦、嵐だ。第四駆逐隊を編成して、四水戦で活躍したぜ。ミッドウェーでは、南雲機動部隊の護りについたんだ。その後も最前線を縦横無尽に駆け抜けて……最期の時は、暗い海での前線の輸送作戦。僚艦の萩風と一緒さ。嵐、そして四駆の仲間たち……覚えていてくれよな。頼むぜ。
Yo, I'm the 16th Kagerou-class Destroyer, Arashi!
I'm the 16th ship in the Kagerou-class Destroyer line. I was part of the Fourth Destroyer Squadron, and was an asset to the Fourth Torpedo Squadron. At Midway, I was assigned as an escort to the Nagumo Carrier Task Force. After that, I also did occasional stints at the frontline as needed......Remember me... and my comrades of the Fourth Destroyer Squadron. Please.
455
Hagikaze
陽炎型駆逐艦、十七番艦、萩風。参りました。\n司令、ご指示をお願いします。
陽炎型駆逐艦十七番艦、萩風です。浦賀生まれです。嵐と一緒に第四駆逐隊で頑張りました。南雲機動部隊の直衛、ソロモンの死闘を経験しました。最期の夜も…嵐と一緒です。私たち、四駆のこと、覚えていてくださいね。
Hagikaze, 17th Ship of the Kagerou-class Destroyer, reporting! Commander, please give me your orders!
I am Hagikaze, the 17th ship of the Kagerou-class Destroyer. I was born in Uraga. I worked diligently as part of the Fourth Destroyer Division with Arashi. Being the escort of the Nagumo Taskforce, I took part in the unforgiving battle in the Solomon Islands. I was with Arashi on my last night to. Please remember us, the Fourth Destroyer Division.
458
Umikaze
白露型駆逐艦七番艦、\nそして改白露型一番艦となる、海風です。\n提督、どうぞよろしくお願いします！
白露型駆逐艦七番艦、改白露型としては一番艦となる海風です。\nマル２計画によって建造されました。第二水雷戦隊の一翼として、ソロモン海の戦いにも参加しました。提督、どうぞよろしくお願い致します。
I am Umikaze, the Seventh of the Shiratsuyu-class Destroyer, and the First of the Revised Shiratsuyu-class. I'll be in your care, Admiral!
I am Umikaze, the Seventh of the Shiratsuyu Class Destroyer, and the First of the Revised Shiratsuyu Class. I was built according to the second Naval Armaments Supplement Program. I participated in the Battle of Guadalcanal, as part of the Second Torpedo Squadron. I will be in your care, Admiral.
459
Kawakaze
白露型駆逐艦九番艦、\n改白露型の江風だよ。よろしくな！\nあ、読み方、間違えンなよ。
白露型九番艦、改白露型駆逐艦の江風だ。\nそうさ、海風の姉貴たちと同じ、マル２計画で建造されたよ。まー、働いた働いた。ソロモン海は何度も駆け回ったよ。最期は夜戦さ。敵さんの電探…ありゃー反則さ。
The ninth Shiratsuyu-class Destroyer, Kawakaze of the revised Shiratsuyu-class. Nice to meet you! Ah, about the reading of my name, do not get it wrong!
Ninth ship of the Shiratsuyu-class, the revised Shiratsuyu-class destroyer, Kawakaze. Well now, I was built under the Maru 2 program, the same as Umikaze and our big sisters. Maaan, that was some hard, hard work! We sailed the Solomon's seas many times over. My last moments were during night battle. The enemy's radar... really, what foul play!
460
Hayasui
おはようございます！\n航空機搭載給油艦、速吸です！\n皆さんのサポート、頑張ります！
艦隊随伴型の給油艦、速吸です。よろしくお願いします！\n様々な物資を補給できる多用途給油艦でありながら、航空機の運用が可能な設計です。ミッドウェー海戦後の計画変更で流星の発進も可能となりました！
Good morning!　I'm Hayasui, an oiler equipped with seaplanes!　I'll do my best to support everyone!
Fleet escort oiler, Hayasui. Best regards! I'm a multi-purpose refuel vessel that can supply a variety of different materials and am also designed to carry carrier-based aircraft. With a change of plans after the Battle of Midway, I also became able to launch Ryuusei.
461
Shoukaku Kai Ni
翔鶴型航空母艦１番艦、翔鶴です。\n一航戦、二航戦の先輩方に、少しでも近づけるように\n瑞鶴と一緒に頑張ります！
翔鶴型航空母艦１番艦の翔鶴です。\n軍縮条約失効後に設計建造された、本格的な大型正規空母として就役しました。妹の瑞鶴と共に第五航空戦隊を編成します。あの惨劇の後は、先輩方の後を継いで戦線を支えました。そして今、マリアナを超えて、提督と共に翔び続けたいと思います。
I'm Shoukaku, the first of the Shoukaku-class carriers. Alongside Zuikaku as remodeled Shoukaku-class, I'm hoping to be a useful source of strength for the admiral.
I'm Shoukaku, the first ship in the Shoukaku carrier series. I was designed and built as the first purpose-built large regular carrier to serve after the Washington Treaty was renounced. With my sister Zuikaku, we make the fifth carrier division. Following the tragedy, we followed in the footsteps of our seniors and continued to support the front lines. And now, having gotten over Mariana, I wish to continue taking a leap forward with the admiral.
462
Zuikaku Kai Ni
翔鶴型航空母艦２番艦、妹の瑞鶴です。\n幸運の空母ですって？そうじゃないの、一生懸命やってるだけ…よ。艦載機がある限り、負けないわ！
翔鶴型航空母艦２番艦、瑞鶴です。\n翔鶴姉と共にミッドウェーの後の第一機動部隊の中核として、矢尽き刀折れるまで奮戦しました。文字通り、最後の機動部隊が壊滅する、その日まで。でも、今度は違うの。改装された本格正規空母の力、存分に魅せるわ！翔鶴姉、やろう！
The carrier whose rigging was completely modernized, Zuikaki here. Don't confuse me for your average aircraft carrier!
Second of the Shoukaku-class aircraft carriers, Zuikaku. Following the battle of Midway, I occupied a core position in the First Mobile Fleet along with Shoukaku-nee. I fought until the very last arrow was fired... which was literally the day the Mobile Fleet was completely annihilated. ...However, this time will be different! I will show you the strength and potential of a fully remodeled aircraft carrier! Shoukaku-nee, let's do this!
463
Iowa
Hi！ MeがIowa級戦艦、Iowaよ。\nYouがこの艦隊のAdmiralなの？ いいじゃない！\n私たちのこともよろしく！
Hi！　Iowa級戦艦Name Ship、Iowaよ。高速戦艦で、この重兵装。Battle shipの最終形ともいえる完成度。USAが生んだ最後の戦艦級として、この艦隊でも頑張るわ。よろしくね！
Destroyer Asashio here. I've received my remodel! I'm prepared to strive even further, so that I can be of more use to the fleet. I'll be in your care!
465
Kashima
提督さん、お疲れさまです。\n練習巡洋艦、鹿島、着任です。うふふ。
香取型練習巡洋艦二番艦、妹の鹿島です。平和の海で、次代の艦隊を育てるために建造されました。その本来の役目を果たせる時間はあまり長くはありませんでしたが、艦隊旗艦や船団護衛、精一杯頑張りました。戦いが終わった後も、未来のために、私、頑張りました！　鹿島のこと、覚えていてくださいね。
Mr. Admiral, thanks for the hard work. Training cruiser, Kashima, checking in! Ufufu!
Second of the Katori-class training cruisers— the little sister, Kashima. I was built at a time of peaceful waters in order to raise a new generation of capable fleet ships. The time spent on my original duty wasn't long, but I gave my very best both as a fleet flagship and escort. After the battle ended, for the sake of the future, I worked very hard! Please don't forget about my services, okay?
466
Shoukaku Kai Ni A
翔鶴型航空母艦１番艦、翔鶴です。\n一航戦、二航戦の先輩方に、少しでも近づけるように\n瑞鶴と一緒に頑張ります！
翔鶴型航空母艦１番艦の翔鶴です。\n軍縮条約失効後に設計建造された、本格的な大型正規空母として就役しました。妹の瑞鶴と共に第五航空戦隊を編成します。あの惨劇の後は、先輩方の後を継いで戦線を支えました。そして今、マリアナを超えて、提督と共に翔び続けたいと思います。
I'm Shoukaku, the first of the Shoukaku-class carriers. Alongside Zuikaku as remodeled Shoukaku-class, I'm hoping to be a useful source of strength for the admiral.
I'm Shoukaku, the first ship in the Shoukaku carrier series. I was designed and built as the first purpose-built large regular carrier to serve after the Washington Treaty was renounced. With my sister Zuikaku, we make the fifth carrier division. Following the tragedy, we followed in the footsteps of our seniors and continued to support the front lines. And now, having gotten over Mariana, I wish to continue taking a leap forward with the admiral.
467
Zuikaku Kai Ni A
翔鶴型航空母艦２番艦、妹の瑞鶴です。\n幸運の空母ですって？そうじゃないの、一生懸命やってるだけ…よ。艦載機がある限り、負けないわ！
翔鶴型航空母艦２番艦、瑞鶴です。\n翔鶴姉と共にミッドウェーの後の第一機動部隊の中核として、矢尽き刀折れるまで奮戦しました。文字通り、最後の機動部隊が壊滅する、その日まで。でも、今度は違うの。改装された本格正規空母の力、存分に魅せるわ！翔鶴姉、やろう！
